Dash to it 🦌 HUGE last-minute savings 🎁
Walmart<newsletters@em.walmart.com>
​
BOTELLO MALDONADO, JHON
​


Score the best gifts at super-low prices.	My account	
Walmart - Save Money. Live Better.
Tech		Home		Fashion		Toys		Flash Deals		All Savings	
The prices? Falling.
 
So many perfect presents
 
Display images to show real-time content	Display images to show real-time content
Display images to show real-time content	Display images to show real-time content
Display images to show real-time content	Display images to show real-time content
Display images to show real-time content	Display images to show real-time content
 
What fun it is to save!
.
.
Get the main, sides & dessert for up to 12, in just 1 tap.
Don’t forget the items in your cart!
More great savings
Food & beverages	Holiday decor
Personal care	Bikes & ride-ons
Home	Floor care
Patio & garden	Shop all
Get gifts before Christmas Day
Get the Walmart app
Download on the App Store	Get it on Google Play
Share on Facebook
Share on Pinterest
Share on X
Share on Youtube
Share on Instagram
Display images to show real-time content
*Listed price covers featured item prices only; assumes each ham is 3.2 pounds. Additional pickup, shipping or delivery fees from $0–$19.95 may apply, are subject to change & will be disclosed prior to purchase. Item availability varies. Prices valid November 29–December 31, 2024. Excludes AK, HI & PR.

*$35 min. Restrictions & fees apply.

**Choose Express delivery at checkout. Restrictions & fees apply.

†$35 minimum. Delivery fees & restrictions apply.

Please note that product availability is limited and prices are subject to change.

Do not reply to this email. The inbox is not monitored. If you require assistance, please click here for help.

Unsubscribe
This email is a Walmart advertisement. If you do not want to receive these email updates, click here to unsubscribe.

Security & Privacy
Walmart protects your security and privacy. We will never ask for personal information (such as passwords or credit card numbers) in an email newsletter. If you receive such a request, please do not respond to the email. Learn more. See our Privacy Policy.

Email Marketing, Walmart.com, 850 Cherry Avenue, San Bruno CA 94066

© 2024 Walmart.