✨We wish you a delightful Holiday Season ✨
Statista<discover@news.statista.com>
​
BOTELLO MALDONADO, JHON
​


Statista - Empowering people with data
Account

Statista

Solutions

Dear Jhon,
As we close out an eventful year and welcome the festive season, we want to extend our thanks and appreciation to you. We look forward to continuing to deliver valuable insights and updates on topics that matter most to you in 2025.

 
MUST-WATCH TOPIC

Consumer confidence shaky as holiday season nears
Did you know that the US is expected to have a stronger holiday shopping season despite a somewhat subdued consumer sentiment in many countries? Learn more about this trend and how sales are projected to compare to previous years: Forecast value of retail sales over the holiday shopping season in the United States (US).


Did AI influence your holiday shopping? From finding gifts to selecting recipients, AI is becoming a popular tool. And what about retailers? Immerse yourself now and discover our selected free statistics:

Christmas gifts: Favorite recipients among U.S. consumers in 2024
Retailers that offer customer-facing AI tools for customers during the holiday season in the U.S.
More exciting statistics and facts about Christmas season shopping await you on this overview page. Don't forget to switch between the different regions.

 
YOUR GIFT AWAITS

Free Whitepaper: Consumer Trends 2025
Ready to future-proof your business? Our Consumer Trends Whitepaper provides the insights you need to stay ahead of the curve and make data-driven decisions.

The whitepaper offers a concise, data-driven overview of the key forces shaping the market—from AI-powered shopping to the rising focus on wellness.

 

Here is what you will learn:

4 of the biggest trends reshaping consumer behavior
Smart strategies to adapt and meet shifting needs
Real-world examples of brands that are leading the pack
Get the whitepaper
Click and go directly to the whitepaper
 
Enjoy the final days of 2024! We look forward to reconnecting with you in the new year. Wishing you happy holidays and a joyful start to the year ahead!

 

Your Statista Team

Instagram	LinkedIn	Facebook	Twitter	YouTube	TikTok	Xing
Statista Inc, 3 World Trade Center, 175 Greenwich Street; 36th floor,
New York, NY 10007 US

Representative: Marc Berg
Federal Tax Identification Number: 99-0367549

 

This Email was sent to jbote001@odu.edu

Manage newsletter preferences | Unsubscribe from list

Information about the timing of deleting personal data, the countries where we save data
(e.g., U.S., EU, UK, Singapore), and the companies we collaborate with can be found
in our privacy statement.

