






















Homeland Security (Graduate Certificate) | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



















Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Programs


                  Homeland Security (Graduate Certificate)
              



Homeland Security (Graduate Certificate)





Program HighlightsCareersCoursesRequirementsCostNext-StepsContact





Request Info




Apply









 

























About this Program

Catastrophic prevention, preparation, communication, responsiveness and recovery are a unique and vital set of skills coveted in areas of public administration, particularly in civil security including emergency and crisis management, business continuity, infrastructure protection, intelligence analysis, law enforcement, and physical security. While the federal government's Department of Homeland Security and federal agencies may be among the largest employers of homeland security professionals, homeland security-related jobs can be found across the country as an ever-growing field and has the potential for huge employment growth. Due to the number of jobs in homeland security, individuals earning a Graduate Certificate in Homeland Security can choose from a range of professional roles.




Program Highlights


Program follows an “all hazards” approach and is adaptable to both public and private sectors


Assignments provide practical real-world skills that are applicable in the workplace


Program offered online: a perfect fit for those with busy work and family lives


Continue working in your current field as you earn the qualifications and skills for advancement or pursue other career opportunities








 




Available In-Person and Online




            AT A GLANCE
          


        School of Continuing Education
      



        School of Continuing Education
      


Degree Level

        Graduate
            


Degree Earned

        Certificate
            


Delivery Modes












Online



















            Careers
          


Check out these ideas from ODU Career Development Services and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.














Emergency Management Directors






            $81,140
      
Median Salary




Plan and direct disaster response or crisis management activities, provide disaster preparedness training, and prepare emergency plans and procedures for natural (e.g., hurricanes, floods, earthquakes), wartime, or technological (e.g., nuclear power plant emergencies or hazardous materials spills) disasters or hostage situations.








Immigration and Customs Inspectors






            $83,320
      
Median Salary




Investigate and inspect persons, common carriers, goods, and merchandise, arriving in or departing from the United States or between states to detect violations of immigration and customs laws and regulations.








Public Relations Specialists






            $67,990
      
Median Salary




Engage in promoting or creating an intended public image for individuals, groups, or organizations. May write or select material for release to various communications media.


































Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for Homeland Security Certificate at ODU?
Students entering the Certificate program in Homeland Security Certificate should meet the minimum university admission requirements Graduate Admission.


Candidates for the Graduate Certificate in Homeland Security will possess the fundamental aspects of national safety and security skills commensurate to those pursued for positions in various government and private agencies.  


All degree-seeking applicants admitted to the certificate program must meet ODU requirements for graduate admission: an earned baccalaureate degree from a regionally-accredited institution or an equivalent degree from a foreign institution. Those whose native language is not English must submit a minimum score of 230 on the computer-based TOEFL or 80 on the TOEFL iBT.  


Non-degree seeking students are required to have these same credentials, though documentation is not required. Ultimately, students must apply to the program in order to obtain the certificate.




More Program and Degree Requirements





















Featured Courses









        ENMA 724
            




View full course description for 
Risk Analysis



                  Approaches to the management of risk; probability assessment methods; risk modeling; use of software packages;…
              











        ENMA 724
            



Risk Analysis





Approaches to the management of risk; probability assessment methods; risk modeling; use of software packages; extensions of decision analysis, including stochastic dominance and multiattribute methods; applications to project management, scheduling, and cost estimation.


















        PADM 712
            




View full course description for 
Emergency Management and Policy



                  Explores policy and regulatory issues of emergency management; intergovernmental responsibilities and relationships…
              











        PADM 712
            



Emergency Management and Policy





Explores policy and regulatory issues of emergency management; intergovernmental responsibilities and relationships among local, state and federal agencies in an 'all hazards' approach to preparing and responding to manmade and natural disasters. Examines challenges faced by local, state, and federal managers during a large scale disaster.


















        CYSE 600
            




View full course description for 
Cybersecurity Principles



                  This course provides an overview of the field of cybersecurity. It covers core cybersecurity topics including computer…
              











        CYSE 600
            



Cybersecurity Principles





This course provides an overview of the field of cybersecurity. It covers core cybersecurity topics including computer system architectures, critical infrastructures, cyber threats and vulnerabilities, cryptography, cryptographic protocol design, information assurance, network security, and risk assessment and management. Students are expected to become familiar with fundamental security concepts, technologies and practices, and develop a foundation for further study in cybersecurity.
















Full Course Catalog














        Cost
            




Estimated rates for the 2023-24 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.






Virginia Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$599





Technology Delivered Courses Outside Virginia and/or the United States

Cost Per-Credit
$623





Non-Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$1,439







Ways to Save
Here are a few ways for you to save on the cost of attending ODU. For more information visit University Student Financial aid






Cost Estimator








            Financial Aid for Graduate Students
      


Financial aid is available to graduate students at Old Dominion University. Financial aid may be available in the form of University fellowships, tuition grants, and research assistantships. In addition to the financial aid offered by the University, graduate students may be eligible for aid and student loans administered by other agencies. For information about part-time employment, scholarships, and student loans, contact the Office of Student Financial Aid. 













        Next Steps
            














        Explore Community
            




















        Request Information
            




















        Virtual Tour
            




















        Visit Campus
            



















Contact


















Deborah Avans


                  Business Programs Mgr
                


757-683-5677


davans@odu.edu



          1105 STUDENT SUCCESS CENTER          
        NORFOLK,            23529
  




















Contact



Graduate Admissions



 
          1000 Rollins Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3685
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3255
                
        fax
            
      








gradadmit@odu.edu

















Contact



International Admissions



 
          2101 Dragas Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3701
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3651
                
        fax
            
      








intladm@odu.edu


























Additional Programs
Are there other programs at ODU I may be interested in?
With over 120 undergraduate programs, 130 graduate programs at the master's, education specialist and doctoral levels plus a wealth of certificate and professional development programs, Old Dominion University has the program for you. Visit our academic program listing page to see other programs ODU has to offer.






























 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















