






















Engineering Management & Systems Engineering (Engineering, Ph.D.) | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



















Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Programs


                  Engineering Management & Systems Engineering (Engineering, Ph.D.)
              



Engineering Management & Systems Engineering (Engineering, Ph.D.)





Program HighlightsCareersCoursesRequirementsCostNext-StepsContact





Request Info




Apply









 

























About this Program

The Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) focuses on developing the necessary skills to perform and evaluate rigorous research. Graduates are prepared for careers in teaching and research at academic institutions as well as in other public and private organizations characterized by innovation and technological leadership. The program blends highly theoretical with more applied or pragmatic research. The fields of research supported by the program are defined by the diverse specializations of the department faculty. Students in the Ph.D. program work closely with faculty to develop world-class expertise in their chosen fields of research. Advising faculty expect doctoral students to become collaborators, supporting the faculty's research agenda, and contributing towards their research goals.




Program Highlights


The complete program is available through Old Dominion University’s distance learning program


Courses are scheduled in the evenings


Nine-time recipient of American Society for Engineering Management (ASEM) Excellence Award


Collaborative environment built on the unique relationship between the faculty advisor and the doctoral student


Students are placed with an advisor with expertise in the student’s research area


A high degree of flexibility is provided to customize the plan of study, taking into account the diversity in the fields of study, the multidisciplinary nature and variety of research that is undertaken








 




Available In-Person and Online




            AT A GLANCE
          


        Batten College of Engineering & Technology
      



        Engineering Management & Systems Engineering
      


Degree Level

        Graduate
            


Degree Earned

        Doctor of Philosophy
            


Concentration

        Engineering Management and Systems Engineering
            


Delivery Modes












Online















          On-Campus
      


















            Careers
          


Check out these ideas from ODU Career Development Services and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.














Engineering Teachers, Postsecondary






            $109,830
      
Median Salary




Teach courses pertaining to the application of physical laws and principles of engineering for the development of machines, materials, instruments, processes, and services. Includes teachers of subjects such as chemical, civil, electrical, industrial, mechanical, mineral, and petroleum engineering. Includes both teachers primarily engaged in teaching and those who do a combination of teaching and research.

























        Alumni Careers
            








        Mississippi State University
            



























Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for Engineering Management & Systems Engineering at ODU?
Students entering the Doctor of Philosophy program in Engineering Management & Systems Engineering should meet the minimum university admission requirements Graduate Admission.


Admission to the Ph.D. program is competitive. The admission process is designed to select applicants that have a strong alignment between their own research interests and an area of specialization of one of the faculty. The best-qualified applicant or applicants for an area of specialization are then selected. The number of students admitted into any faculty's area of specialization is dependent on the faculty's projected ability to advise additional doctoral students. The selection is based on the applicants' academic history, maturity in the development of research capabilities, and proficiency in specialized skills demanded by the research area. In addition to general University admission requirements, which include English language proficiency for international students, applicants must have:




A master's degree or equivalent with a grade point average of 3.50 in an appropriate field from an accredited institution of higher education


An undergraduate degree with a GPA of 3.0 or higher from an ABET-accredited program in engineering or engineering technology, or from an accredited program in applied science




More Program and Degree Requirements





















Featured Courses









        ENMA 811
            




View full course description for 
Engineering Research Methodology



                  This course prepares engineering practitioners to produce systemic applied research or robust project solutions. In the…
              











        ENMA 811
            



Engineering Research Methodology





This course prepares engineering practitioners to produce systemic applied research or robust project solutions. In the applied research track, students will learn and apply the methods, tools, and concepts required for specifying the research purpose, proposal preparation, understanding the current state of the discipline, selecting and executing the appropriate research methodology, analyzing and synthesizing results, and preparing defensible publications. In the engineering project track, students will learn problem definition and scoping, project proposal preparation, methods for establishing the current state of the problem, analytical and experimental designs for testing proposed solutions, robust methods for solution optimization, and solution validation.


















        ENMA 820
            




View full course description for 
Multivariate Statistics for Engineering



                  Introduction to modeling multivariate structural and residual variation, using exploratory data analysis, nonparametric…
              











        ENMA 820
            



Multivariate Statistics for Engineering





Introduction to modeling multivariate structural and residual variation, using exploratory data analysis, nonparametric regression, dependence regression, and factor analytic models, with a goal of producing robust, generalizable multivariate models that support research findings. Statistical analyses will be performed in the free general public licensed R statistical software with references to Minitab and SPSS.


















        ENMA 854
            




View full course description for 
Big Data Fundamentals



                  The objectives of the course are to provide fundamental knowledge and skills of Big Data for the new generation of…
              











        ENMA 854
            



Big Data Fundamentals





The objectives of the course are to provide fundamental knowledge and skills of Big Data for the new generation of researchers, engineers, project managers and business managers in the emerging data-driven science and engineering paradigm. Topics to be covered include data analytics, cloud platforms and tools for Big Data, and innovative applications of Big Data.
















Full Course Catalog














        Cost
            




Estimated rates for the 2023-24 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.






Virginia Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$599





Technology Delivered Courses Outside Virginia and/or the United States

Cost Per-Credit
$623





Non-Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$1,439







Ways to Save
Here are a few ways for you to save on the cost of attending ODU. For more information visit University Student Financial aid






Cost Estimator








            Financial Aid
      


Financial aid is available to graduate students at Old Dominion University. Financial aid may be available in the form of University fellowships, tuition grants, and research assistantships. In addition to the financial aid offered by the University, graduate students may be eligible for aid and student loans administered by other agencies. For information about part-time employment, scholarships, and student loans, contact the Office of Student Financial Aid. 













        Next Steps
            














        Explore Community
            




















        Request Information
            




















        Virtual Tour
            




















        Visit Campus
            



















Contact




















                  Professor
                




















Contact



Graduate Admissions



 
          1000 Rollins Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3685
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3255
                
        fax
            
      








gradadmit@odu.edu

















Contact



International Admissions



 
          2101 Dragas Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3701
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3651
                
        fax
            
      








intladm@odu.edu
































        Related Programs
            



Engineering Management & Systems Engineering (Engineering, D.Eng.)


Engineering Management (M.E.M.)


Systems Engineering (Engineering, M.E.)






































 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















