



 How to Turn a Hobby Into a Career -- Without Regrets | Entrepreneur





































































Skip to content




Menu



Close Menu

 
 

Entrepreneur Landing Page






















      Sign In
          





      Subscribe
          




Search











Entrepreneur Landing Page





















Search





Close Menu

 






      Subscribe to Entrepreneur
          





            Starting a Business
          



            Growing a Business
          



            Leadership
          



            Small Business Guide
          



            Business News
          



            Science & Technology
          



            Money & Finance
          



            Living
          



            Franchise
          










 
              For Subscribers
            


















 
              Write for Entrepreneur
            




















 
              Bookstore
            









 
              Ask an Expert
            










 
              Podcasts
            













 
              Video
            










 
              Entrepreneur TV
            











 
              Webinars
            







              Entrepreneur Store
            
















 
              Spotlight
            















              Magazine Subscription
            










 
            Edition
          


Plus

 
Minus

 


United States
Spanish
Georgia
India
Asia Pacific
Middle East
Europe
South Africa






Facebook

 


X

 


LinkedIn

 


YouTube





 


Instagram

















 


TikTok

 


Snapchat

 


RSS


 

Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC










Home

 Home






Breadcrumb Arrow

 
            Business News
          
















📺 Stream EntrepreneurTV for Free 📺







  How to Turn a Hobby Into a Career -- Without Regrets
  
    Hobbies can run up a big bill and take up a lot of time. So why not turn your hobby into a profitable business? Plenty of reasons.
  





                  By          
            Chris Morris
          




          Share        


Copy


 














    This story originally appeared on CNBC


Not every entrepreneur wants to build a multimillion-dollar company. Some just want to live the dream of transforming a hobby into a career.It's an idea that sounds great in theory: Take something you love to do in your spare time and make it your sole business focus. And for some it works out swimmingly—it may even finally convince a spouse that there was a method to the madness behind all those bills piling up over the years for what seemed like a frivolous basement activity. For others, making the move from hobby to Hobby Inc. can prove to be a hasty decision and major life regret.So think twice before betting that your hobby will be your dream job. You might lose both the hobby and your livelihood if it's a transition not thoroughly thought through.



Arthur Lucas, owner of Charleston, South Carolina-based Freehouse Brewery, said he has no regrets about making the jump from home brewer to professional. "It's more a vocation," said the former management consultant, who also has a law degree. "I don't really feel like it's a job. It's an overexpanded, all-encompassing hobby now. Everything has challenges—and I prefer these challenges. I'm allowed to do my own thing, even if it's hard, as opposed to being what someone else is looking for. That takes a huge weight off my shoulders."


Passion projectsTurning a passion project into a career is not without its hurdles. Many people find that the day-to-day realities of running a business are a little more difficult than they imagined.Jay Adan, co-owner of Greenfield Games, experienced that after his business had been open for a short while. Adan left a career in public relations to open Greenfield, which is now the largest game store in Western Massachusetts, with two partners—Seth Lustig and Dave Fifield—who had previously run a smaller game store. (All three had met and worked together at the video game company Cyberlore.) When Fifield left to focus on a career in the video game space, it proved challenging."It was a critical time," said Adan. "None of us had ever run a retail store before. There really wasn't a full-time business person."


Adan and his partner brought on Joe Minton, a former business associate of theirs from Cyberlore who had experience running a company. He successfully identified where things were going wrong with Greenfield Games—and the team was able to correct them."There's always stuff to learn," Adan said. "Passion can only take you so far. I know a lot about games and how they work, but that doesn't translate into how you run a successful business.""When someone [would] hand me a widget and say, 'I need you to write a release about this now,' I had to force myself to become enthusiastic. ... And that was sucking my soul. Now, even on the worst day at the store, I'm still working at a place that's surrounded by cool games. So how bad can it possibly be?"" -Jay Adan, co-owner of Greenfield GamesThe dangers of making the jump from hobbyist to someone who makes a career of that hobby aren't just on the economic side."When your dreams become reality, they are no longer your dreams," said Hugh MacLeod, author of "Ignore Everybody: And 39 Other Keys to Creativity.""When its a hobby, you're doing it for yourself, on your own time. But when you're doing it for a job, it doesn't feel like that," MacLeod said. "What happens is, your hobby, all of a sudden, is a source of major anxiety because you still have bills to pay."The activities that used to be a source of stress relief can become anxiety-inducers themselves. That can force people to find other hobbies, which might cause their interest in the original field to wander, MacLeod said.Adan acknowledges that his game-playing time has been limited lately, but he's making an effort to correct that.


Lucas said he is yet to experience a downturn in his own private brewing. "I still like to do small batches and throw out a 5-gallon batch now and then to remember how simple beer really is," he said. (The benefit of those small batches? They can also give him ideas to try on a larger scale at Freehouse.)Adan and Lucas said their decision came after weighing their satisfaction with existing jobs against the potential problems of one based on their hobby."I was going in a very different direction," Lucas said, "achieving the things I was setting out to do. But at the end of the day, I always thought I wanted to run my own business—and with the field I was in, it felt like there wasn't any way to do so."Adan said PR was something he did to promote something he loved, but PR itself wasn't interesting to him. "When someone [would] hand me a widget and say, 'I need you to write a release about this now,' I had to force myself to become enthusiastic. ... And that was sucking my soul. Now, even on the worst day at the store, I'm still working at a place that's surrounded by cool games. So how bad can it possibly be?"
 






Wavy Line










Wavy Line













Chris Morris



CNBC.com





                Want to be an Entrepreneur Leadership Network contributor?
                
  Apply now to join.







              Editor's Pick                  

Red Arrow











Lock



To Make Your First Million Dollars, Draw Up This Venn Diagram: 'You Want to Fall Right in the Middle. If You Do, I Think It'll Take 5 Years'
                




An Aggressive 1980s Marketing Campaign Made Many Americans Believe Cinco De Mayo Is Something It's Not. Are You One of Them?




Lock



                  9 Productivity Tips That the 1% Know to Follow





AI Is Transforming Drug Matching for Cancer, Rare Diseases — Here's How
                




                  From Pups to Profits — These Are the Top Pet Franchises for 2024




Lock



When Your Company Hits This 'Critical Mark,' Big Investors and Private Equity Will Come Calling
                






Most Popular


Red Arrow









        See all        

Chevron Right






















          Side Hustle
                  


                  This 29-Year-Old Left His Marketing Job to Pursue a Side Hustle — Now He Earns Nearly $200,000 a Year: 'So Attracted to the Adrenaline Rush'
                  


          Jason Nelson followed his passions for music and entertainment into a lucrative business. 
        











        By        Amanda Breen
      




















          Business News
                  


                  'Everyone Is in Complete Shock': A 500-Person Tesla Team Found Out 'in the Middle of the Night' Their Charger Division Was Laid Off
                  


          Other car companies that use the technology, such as General Motors and Ford, also weren't expecting the news, according to reports.
        











        By        Sherin Shibu
      




















          Side Hustle
                  


                  He Started a Salty Backyard Side Hustle That Out-Earned His Full-Time Job and Now Makes Over $1 Million a Year: 'Take the Leap'
                  


          In 2011, Kyle Needham turned his passion for oysters into a business that saw consistent monthly revenue "right away."
        











        By        Amanda Breen
      




















          Business Ideas
                  


                  63 Small Business Ideas to Start in 2024
                  


          We put together a list of the best, most profitable small business ideas for entrepreneurs to pursue in 2024. 
        











        By        The Staff of Entrepreneur Media, Inc.
      




















          Starting a Business
                  


                  Don't Start a Business Until You Consider These 5 Things
                  


          Thinking about starting a business? Here's what you need to know before you get registered, invest in your startup costs or make your first sale.
        











        By        Ginny Silver
      




















          Business News
                  


                  There Are Only 6 Major Cities Left in the U.S. With 'Affordable' Homes Matching Median Incomes — Here's the List
                  


          Homeownership is not affordable for the typical household in 44 of the 50 largest cities in the U.S. 
        











        By        Sherin Shibu
      
















Success

 


							Successfully copied link
						











          Terms of Use
        

          Privacy Policy
        

          Cookies Policy
        

          Accessibility Statement
        

          Site Map
        

          Contact Support
        

          Advertise
        




Sign up for our free Daily newsletter
We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur.










Facebook

 


X

 


LinkedIn

 


YouTube





 


Instagram

















 


TikTok

 


Snapchat

 


RSS


 



            Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
          

































