






















Data Science & Analytics (M.S.) | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



















Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Programs


                  Data Science & Analytics (M.S.)
              



Data Science & Analytics (M.S.)





Program HighlightsCareersCoursesRequirementsCostNext-StepsContact





Request Info




Apply









 

























About this Program

The purpose of the M.S. degree program in Data Science and Analytics is to provide students with the knowledge and skills to use state-of-the-art programming tools and software packages to develop statistical models. Students will learn to use data for identifying trends and patterns, solving problems, communicating results, and recommending optimal solutions. Students will acquire knowledge, skills, and abilities about the discipline-specific scientific and theoretical concepts critical to data science and analytics.




Program Highlights


Consists of six core courses (18 credits)


Allows students to choose a concentration in:
• Computational Data Analytics
• Business Intelligence & Analytics
• Engineering & Big Data Analytics
• Geospatial Analytics


Includes a capstone project in all concentrations


Provides project-based learning, and students will discover how to use data from different areas such as business, science, engineering, and geospatial to solve real-world problems


Graduates will be knowledgeable and skilled at developing statistical models to detect trends, organizing and managing data, and leading teams in retrieving, cleaning data, and modeling data.








 




Available In-Person and Online




            AT A GLANCE
          


        Graduate School
      



        Graduate School
      


Degree Level

        Graduate
            


Degree Earned

        Master of Science
            


Delivery Modes












Online















          On-Campus
      


















            Careers
          


Check out these ideas from ODU Career Development Services and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.































Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for Data Science & Analytics at ODU?
Students entering the Master of Science program in Data Science & Analytics should meet the minimum university admission requirements Graduate Admission.


A completed online application and associated application fee


A baccalaureate degree in computer science, electrical and/or computer engineering, mathematics, statistics, information system and technology or a related field from a regionally-accredited institution or an equivalent institution outside the U.S.; students holding bachelor's degrees in an unrelated field will need competency in topics related to basic statistics and computer science such as: differentiation and integration, vectors and matrices, determinants and matrix inverse, elementary statistics and probability, basic programming, software development and testing, and C++/java concepts.


Official copies of transcripts of all regionally-accredited institutions attended (or equivalent non-U.S. institutions)


Two letters of recommendation from individuals familiar with the applicant's professional and/or academic background


A current resume


A statement of professional goals


Current scores on the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) of at least 230 on the computer based TOEFL or 80 on the TOEFL iBT




More Program and Degree Requirements





















Featured Courses









        CS 620
            




View full course description for 
Introduction to Data Science and Analytics



                  This course will explore data science as a burgeoning field. Students will learn fundamental principles and techniques…
              











        CS 620
            



Introduction to Data Science and Analytics





This course will explore data science as a burgeoning field. Students will learn fundamental principles and techniques that data scientists employ to mine data. They will investigate real life examples where data is used to guide assessments and draw conclusions. This course will introduce software and computing resources available to a data scientist to process, visualize, and model different types of data including big data. Cross-listed with DASC 620.


















        CS 625
            




View full course description for 
Data Visualization



                  This course covers the theory and application of data visualization. This includes issues in data cleaning to prepare…
              











        CS 625
            



Data Visualization





This course covers the theory and application of data visualization. This includes issues in data cleaning to prepare data for visualization, theory behind mapping data to appropriate visual representations, introduction to visual analytics, and tools used for data analysis and visualization. Modern visualization software and tools will be used to analyze and visualize real-world datasets to reinforce the concepts covered in the course.


















        STAT 603
            




View full course description for 
Statistical/Probability Models for Data Science and Analytics



                  This course will serve as an introduction for modeling data using probability and statistical methods. Topics include…
              











        STAT 603
            



Statistical/Probability Models for Data Science and Analytics





This course will serve as an introduction for modeling data using probability and statistical methods. Topics include basic concepts of probability, Bayes theorem, frequently-occurring discrete and continuous probability distributions, as well as how to simulate data from these distributions. Basic properties of the probability distributions will be discussed, which will provide an insight into the use of these distributions in data science. The course will also cover bivariate and conditional distributions, linear correlation and statistical inference concepts that include likelihood, parameter estimation, and goodness of fit. Prerequisite: STAT 330 or equivalent or permission of the instructor.
















Full Course Catalog














        Cost
            




Estimated rates for the 2023-24 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.






Virginia Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$599





Technology Delivered Courses Outside Virginia and/or the United States

Cost Per-Credit
$623





Non-Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$1,439







Ways to Save
Here are a few ways for you to save on the cost of attending ODU. For more information visit University Student Financial aid






Cost Estimator








            Resources, Scholarships and Assistantships
      


The Graduate School web page will provide updates as to resources, scholarships, assistantships. In addition:

The Graduate School and Office of Research offer graduate summer research awards each year.
The Dr. Hussein Abdel-Wahab Memorial Graduate Fellowship 














        Next Steps
            














        Explore Community
            




















        Request Information
            




















        Virtual Tour
            




















        Visit Campus
            



















Contact


















Sampath Jayarathna


                  Assistant Professor
                


757-683-7787


ujayarat@odu.edu



          3109 ENGR & COMP SCI BLDG          
        NORFOLK,            23529
  




















Contact



Graduate Admissions



 
          1000 Rollins Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3685
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3255
                
        fax
            
      








gradadmit@odu.edu

















Contact



International Admissions



 
          2101 Dragas Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3701
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3651
                
        fax
            
      








intladm@odu.edu
































        Related Programs
            



Computer Science (M.S.)


Maritime Trade & Supply Chain Management (M.S.)


Computer Science (Ph.D.)






































 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















