






















Biomedical Engineering (Engineering, M.S./M.E.) | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



















Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Programs


                  Biomedical Engineering (Engineering, M.S./M.E.)
              



Biomedical Engineering (Engineering, M.S./M.E.)





Program HighlightsCareersCoursesRequirementsCostNext-StepsContact





Request Info




Apply









 

























About this Program

Both the Master of Science and Master of Engineering degrees are designed for students who would like to advance their knowledge and expertise in biomedical engineering. These programs are intended to broaden students' knowledge of the field in preparation for the biomedical technology industry or a PhD program. The Master of Science program requires completion of 8 three-credit courses and 6 thesis research credits. The eight courses include three core courses, selected from a choice of four, and five technical electives, which should be chosen to meet the student’s research and career objectives. The Master of Engineering program requires completion of 10 three-credit courses: three core courses, selected from a choice of four, and seven elective courses. The seven elective courses are chosen to meet the student's career objectives.




Program Highlights


Contribute to world-class research in Bioelectrics and Pulsed Power, Cellular & Molecular Bioengineering, Cardiovascular Engineering, Surgery Planning and Simulation, Musculoskeletal Biomechanics, Neural Engineering, Plasma Medicine, Surgical Robotics and Systems Biology & Computational Bioengineering, and More.


Develop broad understanding of Biomedical Engineering by taking 30 credits, with (MS) or without (ME) a thesis.










            AT A GLANCE
          


        Batten College of Engineering & Technology
      



        Electrical & Computer Engineering
      


Degree Level

        Graduate
            


Degree Earned

        Master of Engineering
            


Concentration

        Biomedical Engineering
            


Delivery Modes












          On-Campus
      


















            Careers
          


Check out these ideas from ODU Career Development Services and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.














Electronics Engineering Technicians






            $64,290
      
Median Salary




Lay out, build, test, troubleshoot, repair, and modify developmental and production electronic components, parts, equipment, and systems, such as computer equipment, missile control instrumentation, electron tubes, test equipment, and machine tool numerical controls, applying principles and theories of electronics, electrical circuitry, engineering mathematics, electronic and electrical testing, and physics. Usually work under direction of engineering staff.








Molecular and Cellular Biologists






            $80,200
      
Median Salary




Research and study cellular molecules and organelles to understand cell function and organization.








Environmental Engineering Technicians






            $53,610
      
Median Salary




Apply theory and principles of environmental engineering to modify, test, and operate equipment and devices used in the prevention, control, and remediation of environmental problems, including waste treatment and site remediation, under the direction of engineering staff or scientist. May assist in the development of environmental remediation devices.








Electrical Engineering Technicians






            $64,290
      
Median Salary




Test or modify developmental or operational electrical machinery or electrical control equipment and circuitry in industrial or commercial plants or laboratories. Usually work under direction of engineers or technologists.


































Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for Biomedical Engineering at ODU?
Students entering the Master of Engineering program in Biomedical Engineering should meet the minimum university admission requirements Graduate Admission.


Completion of a bachelor's degree in Engineering, Science or Mathematics from an accredited institution, although students from other educational backgrounds may apply with appropriate leveling courses.


Two letters of recommendation (typically from faculty in the highest degree program completed when the application is within five years of graduation from that degree program) are required.


The applicant must submit a resume and a statement of purpose and goals.


Foundation knowledge in physics, basic chemistry, computer programming, and mathematics is expected.




More Program and Degree Requirements





For Admission to the Biomedical Engineering Program





        GPA
            



A minimum GPA of 3.00 (out of 4.0) is required of most students. A student with a lower GPA meeting ODU's graduate admission requirements and with evidence of a high level of professional capability may be eligible for admission to the program upon submission of a petition to the graduate program director. 








        GRE
            



Recent scores, typically, not more than five years old, on the Graduate Record Examination's (GRE) verbal, quantitative, and analytical writing sections must be submitted by all applicants. 

























Featured Courses









        BME 720
            




View full course description for 
Modern Biomedical Instrumentation



                  This course covers the design of modern biomedical instruments including select diagnostic, assistive, therapeutic,…
              











        BME 720
            



Modern Biomedical Instrumentation





This course covers the design of modern biomedical instruments including select diagnostic, assistive, therapeutic, prosthetic, imaging, and virtual devices and systems. Techniques for mechanical, electrical, and chemical sensor and transducer design; stimulation and measurement; data acquisition; digital signal processing; and data visualization will be examined.


















        BME 721
            




View full course description for 
Mathematical Modeling in Physiology



                  This course on mathematical modeling in human physiology emphasizes the development of mathematical models, their…
              











        BME 721
            



Mathematical Modeling in Physiology





This course on mathematical modeling in human physiology emphasizes the development of mathematical models, their implementation, and the interpretation of simulation data. The course focuses on cellular physiology, including membrane channels, excitability, and calcium dynamics; it also covers intercellular communication and spatially distributed systems.
















Full Course Catalog














        Cost
            




Estimated rates for the 2023-24 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.






Virginia Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$599





Technology Delivered Courses Outside Virginia and/or the United States

Cost Per-Credit
$623





Non-Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$1,439







Ways to Save
Here are a few ways for you to save on the cost of attending ODU. For more information visit University Student Financial aid






Cost Estimator











        Next Steps
            














        Explore Community
            




















        Request Information
            




















        Virtual Tour
            




















        Visit Campus
            



















Contact


















Michel Audette


                  Associate Professor
                


757-683-6940


maudette@odu.edu



          1321 ENGR & COMP SCI BLDG          
        NORFOLK,            23529
  




















Contact



Graduate Admissions



 
          1000 Rollins Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3685
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3255
                
        fax
            
      








gradadmit@odu.edu

















Contact



International Admissions



 
          2101 Dragas Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3701
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3651
                
        fax
            
      








intladm@odu.edu
































        Related Programs
            



Biomedical Engineering (Engineering, Ph.D.)


Biomedical Engineering (Graduate Certificate)


Engineering Major (B.S.) and Biomedical Engineering (M.E./M.S.)


Engineering Major (B.S.) and Biomedical Engineering (Ph.D.)


Electrical & Computer Engineering (Engineering, Ph.D.)


Electrical & Computer Engineering (Engineering, M.S.)






































 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















