






















Spanish (World Languages & Cultures, B.A.) | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



















Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Programs


                  Spanish (World Languages & Cultures, B.A.)
              



Spanish (World Languages & Cultures, B.A.)





Program HighlightsCareersCoursesRequirementsTransferCostNext-StepsContact





Request Info




Apply









 

























About this Program

In today's job market, the study of Spanish offers some real advantages. There are over 400 million native speakers. It's the second most commonly spoken language in the U.S. and fourth in the world. It's the primary language from Latin America to Spain to the territory of Puerto Rico and the official language of the United Nations, the European Union, and the Organization of American States. There's an increasing presence in the demographics and popular culture of the United States, particularly in the fast-growing states of the Sun Belt. Also, it is considered to be the most beneficial second language for a native speaker of English. Consequently, Old Dominion's Spanish program curriculum is designed to appeal to a wide range of interests and to prepare students for a variety of professions. Knowledge of Spanish also complements such fields as economics, government, history, engineering, and computer science. No matter what their future careers students find that Spanish Studies, as part of a liberal arts education, enriches their professional and personal lives.




Program Highlights


Two types of B.A. degrees: B.A. in Spanish and B.A. in Spanish with Secondary School Certification.


Students have a variety of opportunities to practice their Spanish, including a state-of-the-art multimedia Language Learning Center, lectures by prominent Hispanic writers, and conversation groups.


Broad curriculum: Peninsular and Latin American culture and literature; Culture courses on customs, values, ideologies, popular culture, history, philosophy, art, economics, and education of the many Spanish-speaking nations; Literature courses on major literary movements apply current literary theories, and approach literary texts as fundamental to the study of a given nation's culture; Business Spanish, Spanish for the health professions, phonetics, and grammar.


Students have access to the Language Learning Center as a resource.










            AT A GLANCE
          


        College of Arts & Letters
      



        World Languages & Cultures
      


Degree Level

        Undergraduate
            


Degree Earned

        Bachelor of Arts
            


Delivery Modes












          On-Campus
      


















            Careers
          


Check out these ideas from ODU Career Development Services and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.














Interpreters and Translators






            $51,790
      
Median Salary




Interpret oral or sign language, or translate written text from one language into another.








Chief Executives






            $196,050
      
Median Salary




Determine and formulate policies and provide overall direction of companies or private and public sector organizations within guidelines set up by a board of directors or similar governing body. Plan, direct, or coordinate operational activities at the highest level of management with the help of subordinate executives and staff managers.








Foreign Language and Literature Teachers, Postsecondary






            $75,950
      
Median Salary




Teach languages and literature courses in languages other than English. Includes teachers of American Sign Language (ASL). Includes both teachers primarily engaged in teaching and those who do a combination of teaching and research.








Public Relations and Fundraising Managers






            $127,690
      
Median Salary




Plan, direct, or coordinate activities designed to create or maintain a favorable public image or raise issue awareness for their organization or client; or if engaged in fundraising, plan, direct, or coordinate activities to solicit and maintain funds for special projects or nonprofit organizations.

























        Alumni Careers
            








        Secondary Education
            













        International Non-Governmental Organizations
            













        Governmental Agencies
            



























Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for Spanish at ODU?
Students entering the Bachelor of Arts program in Spanish should meet the minimum university admission requirements Undergraduate Admission.


Must complete the Lower Division General Education requirements and the core requirements.


A cumulative grade point average of 2.00 is required for the 30 hours of upper-division courses in Spanish. 


No more than two SPAN courses taught in English can be counted for the major. 


At least 12 hours in theconcentration must be taken at Old Dominion University.




More Program and Degree Requirements








            Transfer
          

At ODU, we understand that as a transfer student you have unique needs that require a wide array of campus resources. The Center for Advising Administration and Academic Partnerships aims to create a transfer inclusive culture that supports the successful...



Transfer Info
























Featured Courses









        SPAN 322
            




View full course description for 
Identities and Cultures of the Hispanic World



                  This course examines historical and cultural identities in Spain and Latin America, beginning with a study of the…
              











        SPAN 322
            



Identities and Cultures of the Hispanic World





This course examines historical and cultural identities in Spain and Latin America, beginning with a study of the historical constructs that helped create the basis of Spanish and Latin American identities. These include the concept of Convivencia (co-existence) of the three religions in Medieval Spain, pre-Columbian civilizations, the Spanish Conquest, the Colonial period, and the fight for Independence. The course also addresses more modern notions of culture and identity by focusing on themes such as globalization, immigration, economic crises, political leadership, and daily life. Along with these themes, popular culture will be discussed at length in order to understand the role it plays in generating identities. Prerequisites: SPAN 311 and SPAN 312W with a grade of C or better.


















        SPAN 330
            




View full course description for 
Introduction to Hispanic Literature



                  This course introduces students to the basic theoretical and practical aspects and approaches to literary analysis, in…
              











        SPAN 330
            



Introduction to Hispanic Literature





This course introduces students to the basic theoretical and practical aspects and approaches to literary analysis, in order to learn how to read Hispanic literature from the Middle Ages to the present. Literary texts will be examined in terms of content, style, and form. The objectives of the course are to learn how to do a close reading of the texts ? a poem, a short story, a novel, or a theater play ? and interpret them as a literary scholar, while developing skills of critical thinking, speaking and writing in Spanish. Discussions will focus on literary themes and their relationship to current events rather than a chronological survey of literature. Prerequisites: SPAN 311 and SPAN 312W.


















        SPAN 471
            




View full course description for 
Hispanic Women Authors



                  A study of fictional and non-fictional works by Spanish, Spanish-American, and U.S. Latina writers from the 16th to the…
              











        SPAN 471
            



Hispanic Women Authors





A study of fictional and non-fictional works by Spanish, Spanish-American, and U.S. Latina writers from the 16th to the 20th century. The course analyzes gender identity and roles and the interaction of gender, race, and class in literary representations of courtship and marriage, spirituality, nationalism, colonialism, and multiculturalism. (Cross-listed with WCS 471/WCS 571) Prerequisites: SPAN 311, SPAN 312W, SPAN 322, and SPAN 330.
















Full Course Catalog














        Cost
            




Estimated rates for the 2023-24 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.






Active Duty Military Rate

Cost Per-Credit
$250





Virginia Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$393





Technology Delivered Courses Outside Virginia and/or the United States

Cost Per-Credit
$407





Non-Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$1,073







Ways to Save
Here are a few ways for you to save on the cost of attending ODU. For more information visit University Student Financial aid






Cost Estimator








            Study Abroad Scholarships
      


Through the Office of Study Abroad Spanish majors are eligible for scholarships to study the language and culture abroad. 













        Next Steps
            














        Explore Community
            




















        Request Information
            




















        Virtual Tour
            




















        Visit Campus
            



















Contact


















Andrew Gordus


                  Associate Professor
                


757-683-4319


agordus@odu.edu



          4016 BATTEN ARTS & LETTERS          
        NORFOLK,            23529
  




















Contact



Undergraduate Admissions



 
          1004 Rollins Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3685
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3255
                
        fax
            
      








admissions@odu.edu

















Contact



International Admissions



 
          2101 Dragas Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3701
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3651
                
        fax
            
      








intladm@odu.edu
































        Related Programs
            



World Cultural Studies (B.A.)





Related Minors

World Cultures: Values & Visions (Minor)


Latin American Studies (Minor)


Spanish (Minor)




































 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















