






















Reading Specialist Endorsement (Reading, M.S.Ed.) | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



















Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Programs


                  Reading Specialist Endorsement (Reading, M.S.Ed.)
              



Reading Specialist Endorsement (Reading, M.S.Ed.)





Program HighlightsCareersCoursesRequirementsCostNext-StepsContact





Request Info




Apply









 

























About this Program

The Master's Degree program in Reading Education is designed to prepare reading practitioners with the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary for effective teaching of reading, the development of reading programs, and literacy coaching at the elementary and secondary school levels. The program provides an affordable and flexible option for full-time teachers to earn their master's degree, increase their salary, and gain valuable skills for strengthening reading and literacy practices in K-12 classrooms.
Successful candidates will demonstrate the ability to conduct and disseminate research. Extensive course offerings allow the graduate student to pursue research in areas of interest, which, in almost all courses, will include intensive reviews of literature, selected field experiences in reading programs in public or private schools, and assignment to other private or governmental agencies that provide educational services to clients. Additionally, candidates also tutor children in a supervised practicum setting to gain experience in the diagnosis and remediation of reading problems and engage in a field-based reading specialist/literacy coaching experience in their local school division or school of employment.
This program leads to certification as a Reading Specialist in the State of Virginia. In order to receive certification, candidates must pass the state reading exam titled Reading For Virginia Educators (RVE), pass all coursework, and have three years experiences teaching full time with reading as a major part of that teaching.
The Reading Endorsement only is no longer offered at ODU.
The application deadline for the Fall Semester is June 1st and for the Spring Semester is November 1st.
The MSED in Reading is offered completely online, in hybrid formats, as well as face-to-face. Students are required to spend NO time on campus to participate in this program.




Program Highlights


30-credit hour program (Estimated completion: 3-4 semesters)


Asynchronous and synchronous course formats


Supervised practicum (in your local school division)


Affordable and state-competitive tuition


Focus on linguistic and cultural diversity


CAEP accredited


No GRE/MAT scores required








 




Available In-Person and Online




            AT A GLANCE
          


        Darden College of Education & Professional Studies
      



        Department of Teaching & Learning
      


Degree Level

        Graduate
            


Degree Earned

        Master of Science in Education
            


Concentration

        Reading Specialist Endorsement
            


Delivery Modes












Online



















            Careers
          


Check out these ideas from ODU Career Development Services and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.














Instructional Coordinators






            $66,680
      
Median Salary




Develop instructional material, coordinate educational content, and incorporate current technology in specialized fields that provide guidelines to educators and instructors for developing curricula and conducting courses. Includes educational consultants and specialists, and instructional material directors.








Adult Basic and Secondary Education and Literacy Teachers and Instructors






            $56,800
      
Median Salary




Teach or instruct out-of-school youths and adults in remedial education classes, preparatory classes for the General Educational Development test, literacy, or English as a Second Language. Teaching may or may not take place in a traditional educational institution.

























        Alumni Careers
            








        Virginia Beach Public Schools
            













        Newport News Public Schools
            













        Hampton City Public Schools
            













        Norfolk Public Schools
            



























Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for Reading Specialist Endorsement at ODU?
Students entering the Master of Science in Education program in Reading Specialist Endorsement should meet the minimum university admission requirements Graduate Admission.


Candidates seeking admission to the Reading Program must:





Hold a bachelor's degree from a regionally accredited college/university;


Have a renewable initial teaching license in Virginia prior to beginning this program. In Virginia this is called a Collegiate Professional License or a Post-Graduate Professional License.


Have an undergraduate grade point average of 3.0 in the major; (A student whose GPA does not meet this requirement may still be provisionally accepted pending the application but must make an A or A- in the first four graduate-level reading courses to remain in the program.);




More Program and Degree Requirements





For Admission to the Reading Specialist Endorsement Program





        To apply to the program, submit an online application by June 1st for fall admission which includes
            



an essay on why you would like to become a reading specialist; two recommendations from professional sources one being a supervisor (a link is available in the application); a copy of your 5-Year renewal teaching license; OFFICIAL copies of all transcripts of undergraduate and graduate coursework (for ODU coursework, just submit an unofficial copy for the application)

























Featured Courses









        READ 619
            




View full course description for 
WORD STUDY PHONICS LINGSTCS



                  Provides an overview of the field of linguistics, the scientific study of language and word study, an approach to…
              











        READ 619
            



WORD STUDY PHONICS LINGSTCS





Provides an overview of the field of linguistics, the scientific study of language and word study, an approach to spelling instruction that relies on an understanding of English orthography that incorporates instruction in phonics, spelling and vocabulary. Students will learn to recognize characteristics of readers and writers at different levels of development. The course provides multiple opportunities for hands-on practice and application.


















        READ 680
            




View full course description for 
Reading to Learn Across the Curriculum



                  This class has an emphasis on advanced techniques in reading for classroom teachers who are not reading specialists.…
              











        READ 680
            



Reading to Learn Across the Curriculum





This class has an emphasis on advanced techniques in reading for classroom teachers who are not reading specialists. Students develop an understanding of the process of reading to learn across the curriculum including a wide variety of comprehension strategies and an understanding of the complex nature of reading throughout the disciplines. Lecture, demonstrations, development of materials, and practice in the techniques of reading for elementary and secondary classroom teachers and library media specialists are provided. Prerequisite: Graduate standing.


















        READ 683
            




View full course description for 
Diagnostic Teaching of Reading in the Classroom



                  Provides classroom teachers with strategies/techniques to employ to ongoing diagnosis and remediation through the use…
              











        READ 683
            



Diagnostic Teaching of Reading in the Classroom





Provides classroom teachers with strategies/techniques to employ to ongoing diagnosis and remediation through the use of informal and standardized tests to select appropriate instructional strategies for pupils' existing reading capabilities.
















Full Course Catalog














        Cost
            




Estimated rates for the 2023-24 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.






Virginia Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$599





Technology Delivered Courses Outside Virginia and/or the United States

Cost Per-Credit
$623





Non-Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$1,439







Ways to Save
Here are a few ways for you to save on the cost of attending ODU. For more information visit University Student Financial aid






Cost Estimator








            Tuition Discounts
      


25% cohort tuition discount for classroom teachers 













        Next Steps
            














        Explore Community
            




















        Request Information
            




















        Virtual Tour
            




















        Visit Campus
            



















Contact


















Abha Gupta


                  Graduate Program Director
                


757-683-6074


agupta@odu.edu



          3112 EDUCATION BUILDING          
        NORFOLK,            23529
  




















Contact



Graduate Admissions



 
          1000 Rollins Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3685
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3255
                
        fax
            
      








gradadmit@odu.edu

















Contact



International Admissions



 
          2101 Dragas Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3701
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3651
                
        fax
            
      








intladm@odu.edu
































        Related Programs
            



Curriculum & Instruction (Education, Ph.D.)


Reading, Non-Licensure (Reading, M.S.Ed.)






































 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















