






















World Cultural Studies (B.A.) | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



















Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Programs


                  World Cultural Studies (B.A.)
              



World Cultural Studies (B.A.)





Program HighlightsCareersCoursesRequirementsTransferCostNext-StepsContact





Request Info




Apply









 

























About this Program

The World Cultural Studies concentration is a humanities-based program designed to address global issues and expand students’ and professionals’ career opportunities. Graduates become valuable assets in a rapidly globalizing workforce by demonstrating the ability to effectively and creatively work and think across cultures and disciplines. This concentration prepares students to communicate effectively through training in intercultural understanding and fluency. Students learn to navigate cultural codes that take into account local, national, and global identities, to demonstrate adaptive leadership skills, and to facilitate global collaboration in solving worldwide challenges.




Program Highlights


The core courses in this program integrate active local and international partnerships in the form of distinguished guest speakers and off-campus opportunities for students


This program facilitates immersion in local multicultural experiences


Students work closely with a faculty mentor to select an individualized platform of courses suited to the student’s interests and desired sub-specialty


Study abroad courses at the 300-400 level that offer three credits can fulfill at least one course requirement


Excellent double major adding a degree of global competitiveness to all students as almost all fields and related careers are impacted by globalization today


Students have access to the Language Learning Center as a resource










            AT A GLANCE
          


        College of Arts & Letters
      



        World Languages & Cultures
      


Degree Level

        Undergraduate
            


Degree Earned

        Bachelor of Arts
            


Delivery Modes












          On-Campus
      


















            Careers
          


Check out these ideas from ODU Career Development Services and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.














Foreign Language and Literature Teachers, Postsecondary






            $75,950
      
Median Salary




Teach languages and literature courses in languages other than English. Includes teachers of American Sign Language (ASL). Includes both teachers primarily engaged in teaching and those who do a combination of teaching and research.








Public Relations and Fundraising Managers






            $127,690
      
Median Salary




Plan, direct, or coordinate activities designed to create or maintain a favorable public image or raise issue awareness for their organization or client; or if engaged in fundraising, plan, direct, or coordinate activities to solicit and maintain funds for special projects or nonprofit organizations.








Political Science Teachers, Postsecondary






            $98,620
      
Median Salary




Teach courses in political science, international affairs, and international relations. Includes both teachers primarily engaged in teaching and those who do a combination of teaching and research.








Social and Community Service Managers






            $70,530
      
Median Salary




Plan, direct, or coordinate the activities of a social service program or community outreach organization. Oversee the program or organization's budget and policies regarding participant involvement, program requirements, and benefits. Work may involve directing social workers, counselors, or probation officers.


































Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for World Cultural Studies  at ODU?
Students entering the Bachelor of Arts program in World Cultural Studies  should meet the minimum university admission requirements Undergraduate Admission.


Requirements for graduation include a minimum cumulative grade point average of 2.00 overall and in the major, 120 credit hours, which must include both a minimum of 30 credit hours overall and 12 credit hours of upper-level courses in the major program from Old Dominion University, completion of ENGL 110C, ENGL 211C or ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C, and the writing intensive (W) course in the major with a grade of C or better, and completion of Senior Assessment.




More Program and Degree Requirements








            Transfer
          

At ODU, we understand that as a transfer student you have unique needs that require a wide array of campus resources. The Center for Advising Administration and Academic Partnerships aims to create a transfer inclusive culture that supports the successful...



Transfer Info
























Featured Courses









        WCS 321
            




View full course description for 
Human Rights and World Literature and Cultures



                  Struggles for human rights and social justice often find their most evocative expression in literary works from around…
              











        WCS 321
            



Human Rights and World Literature and Cultures





Struggles for human rights and social justice often find their most evocative expression in literary works from around the world. In this course, students will work toward an understanding of different cultural perspectives that inform world concepts of human rights. We will focus on novels, short stories, and poetry. We will also consider the fundamental value of these artistic expressions as both spaces of empathy and agents of change in society. As we discover texts from around the world we will also delve into important socio-political contexts that inform each work. Lastly, this course will turn the lens toward the reader's own values and ideas, and inspire a reconsideration of our place in this world. Prerequisite: A grade of C or better in ENGL 110C.


















        WCS 400
            




View full course description for 
Global Cultural Studies



                  This course will examine selected cultural studies perspectives on mass communication. It will cover cultural studies…
              











        WCS 400
            



Global Cultural Studies





This course will examine selected cultural studies perspectives on mass communication. It will cover cultural studies philosophies, theories, and/or approaches to the study of cultural artifacts and practices that may include some of the following: postmodernism, deconstruction, feminism, and post-colonialism. The readings will include theoretical texts as well as artistic or cultural texts that will more clearly illustrate the theoretical positions. Prerequisite: A grade of C or better in ENGL 110C.


















        WCS 495
            




View full course description for 
TPCS: THE QUESTION OF MEMORY



                  This course invites students to discover approaches to global problems and concerns through an analysis of cultural…
              











        WCS 495
            



TPCS: THE QUESTION OF MEMORY





This course invites students to discover approaches to global problems and concerns through an analysis of cultural expressions from around the world. Students will consider the ways in which literary and artistic expression (literature, film, visual art, music) draw from and impact broader social and political contexts. Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in ENGL 110C.
















Full Course Catalog














        Cost
            




Estimated rates for the 2023-24 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.






Active Duty Military Rate

Cost Per-Credit
$250





Virginia Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$393





Technology Delivered Courses Outside Virginia and/or the United States

Cost Per-Credit
$407





Non-Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$1,073







Ways to Save
Here are a few ways for you to save on the cost of attending ODU. For more information visit University Student Financial aid






Cost Estimator











        Next Steps
            














        Explore Community
            




















        Request Information
            




















        Virtual Tour
            




















        Visit Campus
            



















Contact


















Lee Slater


                  Master Lecturer
                


757-683-5183


lslater@odu.edu



          4045 BATTEN ARTS & LETTERS          
        NORFOLK,            23529
  




















Contact



Undergraduate Admissions



 
          1004 Rollins Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3685
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3255
                
        fax
            
      








admissions@odu.edu

















Contact



International Admissions



 
          2101 Dragas Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3701
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3651
                
        fax
            
      








intladm@odu.edu
































        Related Programs
            




Related Minors

Latin American Studies (Minor)


European Studies (Minor)


World Cultures: Values & Visions (Minor)




































 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















