






















Human Performance Technology (Certificate) | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



















Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Programs


                  Human Performance Technology (Certificate)
              



Human Performance Technology (Certificate)





Program HighlightsCareersCoursesRequirementsCostNext-StepsContact





Request Info




Apply









 

























About this Program

Human performance technology involves a systematic and systemic approach to identifying how performance improvement can be measured, and most critically, applied in real environments to solve real problems. The certificate provides the student with a fundamental understanding of human performance technology coupled with targeted coursework in the design and implementation of instructional and non-instructional performance interventions to contribute to performance improvement, strategic planning, and organizational change initiatives. This certificate is a natural concentration area in both Instructional Design and Technology and business education given the widespread use of performance improvement initiatives found in higher education, corporate, healthcare, and military environments.




Program Highlights


Flexible schedule beginning in fall, spring, and summer.


Finish the 12-credit certificate in one year.


Offered online with the option to attend classes on campus.


One-on-one advising on academic and professional development.


Opportunities to conduct cutting-edge research with faculty.


Comprehensive curriculum covering advanced principles and techniques as well as advanced topics in human performance improvement.








 




Available In-Person and Online




            AT A GLANCE
          


        Darden College of Education & Professional Studies
      



        Department of Educational Foundations & Leadership
      


Degree Level

        Graduate
            


Degree Earned

        Certificate
            


Delivery Modes












Online



















            Careers
          


Check out these ideas from ODU Career Development Services and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.














Social and Community Service Managers






            $70,530
      
Median Salary




Plan, direct, or coordinate the activities of a social service program or community outreach organization. Oversee the program or organization's budget and policies regarding participant involvement, program requirements, and benefits. Work may involve directing social workers, counselors, or probation officers.








Human Factors Engineers and Ergonomists






            $90,340
      
Median Salary




Design objects, facilities, and environments to optimize human well-being and overall system performance, applying theory, principles, and data regarding the relationship between humans and respective technology. Investigate and analyze characteristics of human behavior and performance as it relates to the use of technology.








Social and Human Service Assistants






            $35,460
      
Median Salary




Assist in providing client services in a wide variety of fields, such as psychology, rehabilitation, or social work, including support for families. May assist clients in identifying and obtaining available benefits and social and community services. May assist social workers with developing, organizing, and conducting programs to prevent and resolve problems relevant to substance abuse, human relationships, rehabilitation, or dependent care.








Training and Development Specialists






            $64,700
      
Median Salary




Design and conduct training and development programs to improve individual and organizational performance. May analyze training needs.


































Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for Human Performance Technology  at ODU?
Students entering the Certificate program in Human Performance Technology  should meet the minimum university admission requirements Graduate Admission.


Admission Requirements:

Degree-seeking graduate students may enroll in certificate courses with approval of their advisor.



Non-degree seeking students are required to:

Submit an application and application fee
Have an earned undergraduate degree from a regionally-accredited institution, or an equivalent degree from a foreign institution, with a GPA of 3.0 or higher

 


Are there any International or Program specific admissions requirements?

There are none besides the TOEFL requirements.





More Program and Degree Requirements





For Admission to the Human Performance Technology  Program





        GPA
            



3.00








        TOEFL score
            



iB: 230 or computer-based: 80

























Featured Courses









        IDT 735
            




View full course description for 
Noninstructional Interventions



                  This project-based course examines several different non-instructional interventions that can be used to promote…
              











        IDT 735
            



Noninstructional Interventions





This project-based course examines several different non-instructional interventions that can be used to promote performance improvement. Major methodologies common in the field will be explored as a class, and students will also be required to familiarize themselves with other methodologies of their choice. Emphasis will be on the following interventions: job analysis/work design, performance development, human resource development, organizational communication, organizational design and financial systems.


















        IDT 739
            




View full course description for 
Needs Analysis and Assessment



                  This project-based class will focus on the process of doing a needs analysis and assessment, from start to finish.…
              











        IDT 739
            



Needs Analysis and Assessment





This project-based class will focus on the process of doing a needs analysis and assessment, from start to finish. Although theoretical considerations regarding needs analyses will be explored, the emphasis is on actually conducting the analysis. Students will work in teams under the supervision of the instructor to conduct a needs analysis for an external client.
















Full Course Catalog














        Cost
            




Estimated rates for the 2023-24 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.






Virginia Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$599





Technology Delivered Courses Outside Virginia and/or the United States

Cost Per-Credit
$623





Non-Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$1,439







Ways to Save
Here are a few ways for you to save on the cost of attending ODU. For more information visit University Student Financial aid






Cost Estimator








            Merit-based Scholarships
      


Incoming freshmen to the Benjamin M. Statler College of Engineering and Mineral Resources may qualify for merit-based scholarships based on GPAs and SAT/ACT test scores. No additional application is necessary. These scholarships are in addition to University scholarships. 













        Next Steps
            














        Explore Community
            




















        Request Information
            




















        Virtual Tour
            




















        Visit Campus
            



















Contact


















John Baaki


                  Associate Professor
                


757-683-5491


jbaaki@odu.edu



          2303  EDUCATION BUILDING          
        NORFOLK,            23529
  




















Contact



Graduate Admissions



 
          1000 Rollins Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3685
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3255
                
        fax
            
      








gradadmit@odu.edu

















Contact



International Admissions



 
          2101 Dragas Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3701
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3651
                
        fax
            
      








intladm@odu.edu
































        Related Programs
            



Computer Engineering (B.S.COM.E.)


Electrical Engineering (B.S.E.E.)





Related Minors

Computer Science (Minor)


Mathematics (Minor)




































 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















