






















Nursing, Post-licensure (B.S.N.) | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



















Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Programs


                  Nursing, Post-licensure (B.S.N.)
              



Nursing, Post-licensure (B.S.N.)





Program HighlightsCareersCoursesRequirementsTransferCostNext-StepsContact





Request Info




Apply









 

























About this Program

Nursing is a rapidly changing, highly rewarding profession. Today's nurse must have a strong academic background, balanced with deep, nurturing values to deliver quality healthcare and shape the future of the profession. Today's nurse must understand the importance of developing partnerships within the community to provide health care to its constituents. Today's nurse must understand individuals' cultural and genetic differences. Today's nurse must also understand the interdisciplinary nature of the modern health care team and learn to work effectively within the team environment. Old Dominion University's Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) is the program for today's nurse. The Post-licensure track is for those who are already licensed as an RN and who want to advance their career by earning a BSN. The undergraduate program has been successfully delivering quality nursing education to RNs at a distance since 1987. The BSN program at Old Dominion University attracts bright men and women from many walks of life and is offered through distance learning online. If you want to accept a challenge, are ready to maximize your potential and become a nurse for the 21st century, come join us!




Program Highlights


Courses are entirely online and formatted to allow for easy navigation of course content within the Personal Learning Environment.


Course assignments are designed for nurses to demonstrate practical application of content in their actual work setting.


Small class sections taught by supportive, experienced and engaged faculty allows for individualized students assistance.


The program admits every semester (fall, spring and summer) allowing students to begin the program when they are ready.


Every required nursing course is offered at least twice per year. The final capstone course is offered every semester allowing students maximize flexibility in course scheduling.


Part-time and full-time enrollment schedules are available.


Create a professional portfolio while in the program to help you earn a promotion or admission to graduate school.


32 years of experience offering RN-BSN education using distance technologies








 




Available In-Person and Online




            AT A GLANCE
          


        School of Nursing
      


Degree Level

        Undergraduate
            


Degree Earned

        Bachelor of Science in Nursing
            


Delivery Modes












Online



















            Careers
          


Check out these ideas from ODU Career Development Services and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.














Registered Nurses






            $73,550
      
Median Salary




Assess patient health problems and needs, develop and implement nursing care plans, and maintain medical records. Administer nursing care to ill, injured, convalescent, or disabled patients. May advise patients on health maintenance and disease prevention or provide case management. Licensing or registration required.








Critical Care Nurses






            $73,550
      
Median Salary




Provide advanced nursing care for patients in critical or coronary care units.








Acute Care Nurses






            $73,550
      
Median Salary




Provide advanced nursing care for patients with acute conditions such as heart attacks, respiratory distress syndrome, or shock. May care for pre- and post-operative patients or perform advanced, invasive diagnostic or therapeutic procedures.








Health Educators






            $59,010
      
Median Salary




Provide and manage health education programs that help individuals, families, and their communities maximize and maintain healthy lifestyles. Collect and analyze data to identify community needs prior to planning, implementing, monitoring, and evaluating programs designed to encourage healthy lifestyles, policies, and environments. May serve as a resource to assist individuals, other healthcare workers, or the community, and may administer fiscal resources for health education programs.

























        Alumni Careers
            








        Sentara
            













        CHKD
            













         Armed Forces
            













        Johns Hopkins
            













        Massachusetts General 
            



























Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for Nursing, Post-licensure at ODU?
Students entering the Bachelor of Science in Nursing program in Nursing, Post-licensure should meet the minimum university admission requirements Undergraduate Admission.


Admission to the School of Nursing is a competitive process. Students are accepted for admission fall, spring and summer semesters.




Applicants for admission to the baccalaureate program in Nursing should apply initially to the Office of Admissions of Old Dominion University to seek admission to the University. Admission to the University does not constitute admission to the School of Nursing.


Complete prerequisite courses with a grade of "C" or better prior to being admitted to the School of Nursing. In some cases, the admissions committee of the School of Nursing may require additional course work. Transfer students may complete the prerequisite courses at another college or university but are responsible for having transfer credit evaluation completed by Transfer Evaluation Services to determine that transfer courses are equivalent and acceptable to University requirements.


Applicants must complete a School of Nursing Supplemental Application to be considered for admission to the undergraduate Nursing program. The School of Nursing Supplemental Application may be obtained directly from the School of Nursing Academic Advising Office or the School of Nursing website.




More Program and Degree Requirements








            Transfer
          

At ODU, we understand that as a transfer student you have unique needs that require a wide array of campus resources. The Center for Advising Administration and Academic Partnerships aims to create a transfer inclusive culture that supports the successful...



Transfer Info
























Featured Courses









        NURS 363
            




View full course description for 
Principles of Practice: Research as Foundation for Practice



                  This course focuses on the theories and concepts utilized in the scientific investigation of nursing practice. Content…
              











        NURS 363
            



Principles of Practice: Research as Foundation for Practice





This course focuses on the theories and concepts utilized in the scientific investigation of nursing practice. Content emphasizes the development of skills necessary to be a consumer of nursing research. Prerequisites: Admission to BSN program. Pre- or corequisites: STAT 130M.


















        NURS 417
            




View full course description for 
Nursing Informatics



                  This course focuses on information management and the utilization of patient care technologies to improve the patient…
              











        NURS 417
            



Nursing Informatics





This course focuses on information management and the utilization of patient care technologies to improve the patient experience of care (quality, satisfaction, safety), improve the health of populations, and reduce cost. Students will develop knowledge, skills and attitudes related to nursing informatics through readings, online discussions, case studies and exploration and use of electronic modalities. Prerequisites: Admission to the BSN program.


















        NURS 456
            




View full course description for 
Global Health Perspectives



                  This introductory course to global health emphasizes the major underlying determinants of poor health and the…
              











        NURS 456
            



Global Health Perspectives





This introductory course to global health emphasizes the major underlying determinants of poor health and the relationship between health and political, social, and economic development. Students will be introduced to. global effects on the health of populations worldwide, current and future challenges to global health and the role of primary health care providers in meeting that challenge. (A student receiving credit for NURS 456 cannot receive credit for NURS 356.) Prerequisite: permission of the instructor.
















Full Course Catalog














        Cost
            




Estimated rates for the 2023-24 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.






Active Duty Military Rate

Cost Per-Credit
$250





Virginia Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$393





Technology Delivered Courses Outside Virginia and/or the United States

Cost Per-Credit
$407





Non-Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$1,073







Ways to Save
Here are a few ways for you to save on the cost of attending ODU. For more information visit University Student Financial aid






Cost Estimator








            Scholarships & Grants
      


Click here for an extensive list of scholarships and grants offered to ODU Nursing students. 













        Next Steps
            














        Explore Community
            




















        Request Information
            




















        Virtual Tour
            




















        Visit Campus
            



















Contact


















Todd Marville


                  Enrollment Coordinator
                


757-448-3083


tmarvill@odu.edu



          1651 E PARHAM ROAD BURNETTE HALL, STE 162          
        RICHMOND,            23228
  




















Mark Pryor


                  Enrollment Coordinator
                


757-448-3746


mpryor@odu.edu



          RAPPAHANNOCK COMM COLL          
        NORFOLK,            23529
  




















Contact



Undergraduate Admissions



 
          1004 Rollins Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3685
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3255
                
        fax
            
      








admissions@odu.edu

















Contact



International Admissions



 
          2101 Dragas Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3701
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3651
                
        fax
            
      








intladm@odu.edu
































        Related Programs
            



Nursing, Pre-licensure (B.S.N.)


Nursing (M.S.N.)






































 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















