






















Criminology & Criminal Justice (Ph.D.) | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



















Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Programs


                  Criminology & Criminal Justice (Ph.D.)
              



Criminology & Criminal Justice (Ph.D.)





Program HighlightsCareersCoursesRequirementsCostNext-StepsContact





Request Info




Apply









 

























About this Program

The Ph.D. in Criminology and Criminal Justice is a sociological criminology program that highlights social inequality and public policy in the study of crime and justice issues. The program produces scholars with strong backgrounds in the substantive areas of criminology, criminal justice, theory, inequality, and policy as well as in research methods and statistics. Designed primarily for students who are interested in pursuing careers in higher education, the course offerings also provide students the education and skills needed to be employed as researchers in public and private agencies. Graduates are prepared as scholars able to conduct research, teach college and university courses in their areas of specialization, and to provide service to the discipline and community.




Program Highlights


UNDERGRADUATE MAJORS 1000+


FULL-TIME FACULTY 23


PH.D STUDENTS CURRENTLY ENROLLED 12










            AT A GLANCE
          


        College of Arts & Letters
      



        Sociology & Criminal Justice
      


Degree Level

        Graduate
            


Degree Earned

        Doctor of Philosophy
            


Delivery Modes












          On-Campus
      


















            Careers
          


Check out these ideas from ODU Career Development Services and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.














Criminal Justice and Law Enforcement Teachers, Postsecondary






            $68,980
      
Median Salary




Teach courses in criminal justice, corrections, and law enforcement administration. Includes both teachers primarily engaged in teaching and those who do a combination of teaching and research.








Social Scientists and Related Workers, All Other






            $83,230
      
Median Salary




All social scientists and related workers not listed separately.








Social Sciences Teachers, Postsecondary, All Other






            $79,050
      
Median Salary




All postsecondary social sciences teachers not listed separately.








First-Line Supervisors of Police and Detectives






            $91,590
      
Median Salary




Directly supervise and coordinate activities of members of police force.

























        Alumni Careers
            








        Kennesaw State University 
            













        Radford University
            













        Columbus State University 
            



























Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for Criminology & Criminal Justice at ODU?
Students entering the Doctor of Philosophy program in Criminology & Criminal Justice should meet the minimum university admission requirements Graduate Admission.


A completed master’s degree (or its equivalent) in criminology, criminal justice, or in an appropriate field (e.g., administration of justice, sociology, or political science) from a regionally accredited institution of higher education – a thesis is generally expected; 


The Graduate Record Examination (GRE) is required of all applicants; 


Successful completion of prior coursework in research methods and statistics at least equivalent to that required by the ODU B.A. in sociology/criminal justice and M.A. degree in applied sociology (research methods, statistics, computer and data analysis); 


Three letters of reference from sources capable of commenting on the applicant’s readiness for advanced graduate study in criminology & criminal justice; 


A writing sample of at least 20 double-spaced pages on a topic related to the applicant’s expertise or area of interest; 


A typed statement of approximately 1,000 words summarizing the individual's motivation for applying to the program as well as the professional contributions s/he intends to make assuming successful completion of the degree; 


If the applicant’s native language is not English, a current score for the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) of at least 540 and/or an interview in which the applicant’s comprehension and fluency in English can be assessed.     




More Program and Degree Requirements





For Admission to the Criminology & Criminal Justice Program





        GPA
            



A minimum of 3.25 (on a 4.0 scale) overall for the master’s degree; 








        TOEFL
            



At least 540 and/or an interview in which the applicant’s comprehension and fluency in English can be assessed.

























Featured Courses









        CRIM 802
            




View full course description for 
Advanced Criminological Theory



                  This course is an examination of criminological theory for the advanced student. The focus is on critical analysis of…
              











        CRIM 802
            



Advanced Criminological Theory





This course is an examination of criminological theory for the advanced student. The focus is on critical analysis of both contemporary and historical criminological theories. In order to aid in the development of a critical understanding of theory, beyond understanding the content of central theories, the class focuses on discussion of theory development and testing. In addition, the class focuses on an understanding of the relationship of one theory to another as well as the state of empirical evidence surrounding each theory.


















        CRIM 803
            




View full course description for 
Inequality, Crime and Justice



                  This course examines the linkages between social characteristics and crime. The course concentrates on what is known…
              











        CRIM 803
            



Inequality, Crime and Justice





This course examines the linkages between social characteristics and crime. The course concentrates on what is known about the impact of gender, age, race and social class on crime and criminal justice.


















        CRIM 820
            




View full course description for 
Advanced Research Methods in Criminology & Criminal Justice



                  This course provides students with advanced understanding of issues in criminology/criminal justice research including:…
              











        CRIM 820
            



Advanced Research Methods in Criminology & Criminal Justice





This course provides students with advanced understanding of issues in criminology/criminal justice research including: history, philosophy, sociology, epistemology, politics and ethics of social science research; methodological questions of reliability, validity, conceptualization, operationalization, scale construction, data collection methodologies, sampling.
















Full Course Catalog














        Cost
            




Estimated rates for the 2023-24 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.






Virginia Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$599





Technology Delivered Courses Outside Virginia and/or the United States

Cost Per-Credit
$623





Non-Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$1,439







Ways to Save
Here are a few ways for you to save on the cost of attending ODU. For more information visit University Student Financial aid






Cost Estimator












We offer competitive assistant-ships to qualified applicants 













        Next Steps
            














        Explore Community
            




















        Request Information
            




















        Virtual Tour
            




















        Visit Campus
            



















Contact


















Scott Maggard


                  Associate Professor
                


smaggard@odu.edu



          6046 BATTEN ARTS & LETTERS          
        NORFOLK,            23523
  




















Contact



Graduate Admissions



 
          1000 Rollins Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3685
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3255
                
        fax
            
      








gradadmit@odu.edu

















Contact



International Admissions



 
          2101 Dragas Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3701
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3651
                
        fax
            
      








intladm@odu.edu
































        Related Programs
            



Applied Sociology (M.A.)






































 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















