






















Art History (Minor) | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



















Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Programs


                  Art History (Minor)
              



Art History (Minor)





Program HighlightsCareersCoursesRequirementsTransferCostNext-StepsContact





Request Info




Apply









 

























About this Program

The study of the history of art promotes visual and cultural literacy, critical thinking, and communication skills. Students may major or minor in Art History at ODU, and it is part of the curricula of studio art, art education, and graphic design as well. After a survey of world art from ancient to contemporary, students may select areas of interest as they build their skills in research and writing, but are encouraged to sample broadly from course offerings. Advanced majors may pursue internships at museums and other cultural venues, conduct independent research with faculty guidance, and write an original thesis as a culmination of their studies.




Program Highlights


ODU’s Art History majors have presented at national conferences and entered prestigious master’s and doctoral programs


The Art History Program offers scholarships and study abroad opportunities


Art History majors participate in the annual Undergraduate Research Symposium, in which students can share their original research in a professional format


The Student Art History Association supports extracurricular activities including discussions, field trips and guest lectures.


ODU and Norfolk are rich in cultural resources, including the Barry Art Museum on ODU’s campus, the Hermitage and Chrysler museums in Norfolk and the Museum of Contemporary Art in Virginia Beach.










            AT A GLANCE
          


        College of Arts & Letters
      



        Department of Art
      


Degree Level

        Undergraduate
            


Degree Earned

        Minor
            


Delivery Modes












          On-Campus
      


















            Careers
          


Check out these ideas from ODU Career Development Services and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.














Curators






            $58,830
      
Median Salary




Administer collections, such as artwork, collectibles, historic items, or scientific specimens of museums or other institutions. May conduct instructional, research, or public service activities of institution.








Middle School Teachers, Except Special and Career/Technical Education






            $61,040
      
Median Salary




Teach students in one or more subjects in public or private schools at the middle, intermediate, or junior high level, which falls between elementary and senior high school as defined by applicable laws and regulations.


































Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for Art History  at ODU?
Students entering the Minor program in Art History  should meet the minimum university admission requirements Undergraduate Admission.


A student who chooses to complete a minor in art history must receive the approval of the chief departmental advisor and the art history program director. ARTH 150 and ARTH 203, ARTH 210 or ARTH 230 are prerequisite courses for the minor and are not included in the calculation of the grade point average for the minor. A reading knowledge of French, German, Italian or Spanish is strongly advised. The requirement for the minor for BA and BS students comprises 12 hours selected from ARTH 300- and 400-level courses. For completion of the minor a student must have a minimum overall cumulative grade point average of 2.00 and no grade lower than a C in all courses specified as a requirement for the minor exclusive of prerequisite courses. Transfer students must complete a minimum of six hours in ARTH 300- and 400-level courses through courses offered by Old Dominion University.




More Program and Degree Requirements








            Transfer
          

At ODU, we understand that as a transfer student you have unique needs that require a wide array of campus resources. The Center for Advising Administration and Academic Partnerships aims to create a transfer inclusive culture that supports the successful...



Transfer Info
























Featured Courses









        ARTH 316
            




View full course description for 
High Renaissance Art in Italy



                  This course is a survey of High Renaissance Art in Italy (roughly 1473 to 1520), focusing primarily on the recognized…
              











        ARTH 316
            



High Renaissance Art in Italy





This course is a survey of High Renaissance Art in Italy (roughly 1473 to 1520), focusing primarily on the recognized major artists or 'masters' of the High Renaissance: Leonardo da Vinci, Michelangelo, Raphael, and Titian. Prerequisites: ARTH 121A or ARTH 150 or ARTH 203 or ARTH 204 or ARTH 210 or ARTH 230 or permission of the instructor.


















        ARTH 495
            




View full course description for 
TPCS: SACRED & PROFANE ART



                  A study of selected topics in art history to be specified in the class schedule each semester. May be repeated for…
              











        ARTH 495
            



TPCS: SACRED & PROFANE ART





A study of selected topics in art history to be specified in the class schedule each semester. May be repeated for credit as topics vary. Prerequisites: ARTH 121A or ARTH 203 or ARTH 210 or ARTH 230 or ARTH 212 or permission of the instructor.


















        ARTH 360
            




View full course description for 
Asian Art



                  An introduction to the architecture, sculpture, calligraphy, pottery, ink painting, miniature painting, and gardens of…
              











        ARTH 360
            



Asian Art





An introduction to the architecture, sculpture, calligraphy, pottery, ink painting, miniature painting, and gardens of India, China, and Japan. Emphasis will be placed on the connections among the cultures: Buddhism and pilgrimage, the importance of the scholar painters, the role of trade routes and the emergence of native writing. Cross-listed with ASIA 360. Prerequisite: ARTH 121A or ARTH 150 or ARTH 203 or ARTH 204 or ARTH 210 or ARTH 230 or permission of the instructor.




























        Cost
            




Estimated rates for the 2023-24 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.






Active Duty Military Rate

Cost Per-Credit
$250





Virginia Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$393





Technology Delivered Courses Outside Virginia and/or the United States

Cost Per-Credit
$407





Non-Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$1,073







Ways to Save
Here are a few ways for you to save on the cost of attending ODU. For more information visit University Student Financial aid






Cost Estimator








            Scholarships
      



Charles Sibley Scholarship (Spring Semester, Annual)
Helen and Richard Parker Scholarship in Art History (Spring Semester, Annual)
Scholarships via Honors College (Begins Sophomore Year) 
Undergraduate Research Grant (April 15th Deadline) 
Undergraduate Travel Grant
Undergraduate Research Symposium each February. This is an excellent opportunity to present research and to build your C.V. 














        Next Steps
            














        Explore Community
            




















        Request Information
            




















        Virtual Tour
            




















        Visit Campus
            



















Contact


















Anne Muraoka


                  Associate Professor
                


757-683-4678


amuraoka@odu.edu



          1000E BARRY ARTS BUILDING 4600 MONARCH WAY          
        NORFOLK,            23529
  




















Contact



Undergraduate Admissions



 
          1004 Rollins Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3685
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3255
                
        fax
            
      








admissions@odu.edu

















Contact



International Admissions



 
          2101 Dragas Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3701
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3651
                
        fax
            
      








intladm@odu.edu


























Additional Programs
Are there other programs at ODU I may be interested in?
With over 120 undergraduate programs, 130 graduate programs at the master's, education specialist and doctoral levels plus a wealth of certificate and professional development programs, Old Dominion University has the program for you. Visit our academic program listing page to see other programs ODU has to offer.






























 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















