
























Class of 2022: Unstoppable Mother of 9 Pursues Her Teaching Dream | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 




















Breadcrumb


Home


News Center


                  Class of 2022: Unstoppable Mother of 9 Pursues Her Teaching Dream
              



Class of 2022: Unstoppable Mother of 9 Pursues Her Teaching Dream














share


















 



























By David Simpson
Cheryl Holman was expecting her ninth child – and was homeschooling the rest – when her marriage fell apart in 2012. Devastated, she tried to pick up the pieces of her life.
“It’s hard to even look back at that time,” she said recently.
How the King George, Virginia, woman got from that point to where she is today – about to walk across the stage to receive her Bachelor of Science in elementary education at Old Dominion University, a school she’s never visited – is a story of grit and optimism.
“If I had to describe myself in one word, I’d say ‘ambitious,’” said Holman, 50.
Her drive impressed instructors at ODU, where she has taken classes online since 2018.
“Cheryl Holman is one of the most inquisitive, dedicated and resourceful students that I have taught in my 15 years at ODU,” said Jody Sommerfeldt, a senior lecturer in the Department of Teaching and Learning. “She will relentlessly pursue ways to meet every diverse learning need in her classroom, and that is exactly the kind of teacher that ODU strives to prepare.”
“She’s tenacious,” said Michael Mondak, an adjunct instructor in the Department of Communication Disorders and Special Education who supervised Holman during her student teaching stint this semester. “She's done a remarkable job in the classroom.”  
Holman grew up on the outskirts of Atlantic City, New Jersey, and started her family in Brooklyn, New York. When her first daughter was little, Holman began teaching her to read.
“I had never heard of homeschooling,” Holman said, but found she loved it.
After more than four years in Brooklyn, the family moved to New Jersey. Holman kept teaching her kids – reading, writing, math, science – using materials from a homeschool publisher.
School was woven into their life together. They had lessons at the kitchen table, on couches, even on the road, she said. To accommodate the children’s different learning levels, she taught classes like algebra to the older children while her young ones were asleep.
In 2008, Holman’s husband got a new work assignment in Virginia, and the family – now with seven children – moved to King George. It was already a houseful when her 90-year-old grandmother moved in with them in 2010. Supportive friends helped with the woman’s shopping and took her to doctors.
Holman taught her kids up through eighth grade, then enrolled them in online classes for their high school work. She would sometimes watch the video lessons with them, just to learn more.
And then, in 2012, her marriage ended. Money grew short and her van was repossessed. Things seemed hopeless.
But in King George, a town of about 4,600, people knew one another. Word got around.
“Someone paid my mortgage for three months,” Holman said, “and I don’t know to this day who.”
Meals would show up, she said. A bank manager gave Holman’s 16-year-old daughter a loan so Holman could get the van back. 
“I will always be grateful to her. Things were a disaster, but she saved that part of my life. People knew me or my situation, and it was like they just took me and my children under their wing.”
Eventually, alimony and child support started flowing, and the pressure eased.
But Holman wanted to establish a career for herself and not rely purely on her ex-husband's support. She liked teaching, so why not aim for a job in the public school system? That way she could be at home with her children when they were on summer break. She started taking classes online at Germanna Community College.
But in 2017 her life took another turn when her grandmother fell and broke her hip. Knowing she would require much more care, Holman put her children in public school. Her home education career was over.
Pressing on with her studies, she finished her associate’s degree in 2018 and enrolled in Old Dominion’s well-regarded online bachelor’s program in elementary education, relying on loans and scholarships to pay for tuition.
Still, Holman wanted to be more financially independent, so she worked in child care at the YMCA. She became a substitute teacher. One day she spotted a school bus and thought: “I could do that.” After training and certification, she drove a route from 2018 to 2021 – and still fills in when her schedule allows.
Looking back, she knows she has done her best for her five boys and four girls, along with her grandmother, who died in January at age 101. Holman’s five grown children include a registered nurse, an airman, a Marine, a master’s degree student and a shift manager at a business. Four children are still at home. She also has three grandchildren.
This fall, she’s been student teaching at Potomac Elementary in King George. She said she’s passionate about meeting the needs of her third-grade pupils.
“It’s been amazing how far behind most third-graders are due to circumstances beyond their control during the COVID years, and so we’re just picking up a lot of the slack and jumping in there and helping them catch up and thrive.”
Holman recommends ODU’s elementary ed program, mainly because of the faculty.
“Doug Brown was a great advisor – he helped me navigate the unknown. Jody Sommerfeldt and C.J. Butler were excellent teachers. The professors were all very encouraging and were always there to give advice or support.”
Holman is eager to walk at graduation on Dec. 17 and visit the ODU campus for the first time. At least four of her children will join her. She has booked a Virginia Beach hotel with an ocean view.
“I’ll tell you what, pal, that is my prize. I’m so excited because I worked really hard.”
Next, she hopes to land a full-time, paid teaching job and continue helping students along a sometimes difficult path. She knows what it's like to struggle.
“I’m the perfect person to listen, encourage them and tell them to keep going.”





























 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 

























