






















Computational & Applied Mathematics (M.S.) | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



















Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Programs


                  Computational & Applied Mathematics (M.S.)
              



Computational & Applied Mathematics (M.S.)





Program HighlightsCareersCoursesRequirementsCostNext-StepsContact





Request Info




Apply









 

























About this Program

The master’s program in computational and applied mathematics offered by the Department of Mathematics and Statistics is designed to produce applied mathematicians and statisticians who can meet the growing demand for analytical and computational skills in traditional scientific and multi-disciplinary fields. Students in the program can choose to pursue an option in either applied mathematics, statistics, or biostatistics.




Program Highlights


ODU is one of the few institutions around the world that offers a Computational and Applied Mathematics graduate program, rather than a traditional mathematics program.


Coursework for the M.S. degree contains a significant component in Big Data Analytics


Distinguished by its connections to Modeling and Simulation research throughout the campus










            AT A GLANCE
          


        College of Sciences
      



        Mathematics & Statistics
      


Degree Level

        Graduate
            


Degree Earned

        Master of Science
            


Delivery Modes












          On-Campus
      


















            Careers
          


Check out these ideas from ODU Career Development Services and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.














Actuaries






            $114,850
      
Median Salary




Analyze statistical data, such as mortality, accident, sickness, disability, and retirement rates and construct probability tables to forecast risk and liability for payment of future benefits. May ascertain insurance rates required and cash reserves necessary to ensure payment of future benefits.








Secondary School Teachers, Except Special and Career/Technical Education






            $62,860
      
Median Salary




Teach students in one or more subjects, such as English, mathematics, or social studies at the secondary level in public or private schools. May be designated according to subject matter specialty.








Statisticians






            $88,980
      
Median Salary




Develop or apply mathematical or statistical theory and methods to collect, organize, interpret, and summarize numerical data to provide usable information. May specialize in fields such as bio-statistics, agricultural statistics, business statistics, or economic statistics. Includes mathematical and survey statisticians.








Mathematical Science Teachers, Postsecondary






            $84,710
      
Median Salary




Teach courses pertaining to mathematical concepts, statistics, and actuarial science and to the application of original and standardized mathematical techniques in solving specific problems and situations. Includes both teachers primarily engaged in teaching and those who do a combination of teaching and research.

























        Alumni Careers
            








        Food and Drug Administration
            













        Newport News Shipbuilding
            













        Eastern Virginia Medical School
            













        Pfizer
            













        Oak Ridge National Laboratory
            













        Naval Surface Warfare Center
            



























Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for Computational & Applied Mathematics at ODU?
Students entering the Master of Science program in Computational & Applied Mathematics should meet the minimum university admission requirements Graduate Admission.


The M.S. candidate must complete a minimum of 33 normal credit hours of course work designed to fulfill an option in either applied mathematics, statistics or biostatistics. The M.S. candidate will be assigned to a faculty advisor for a master’s project. The master’s project is designed not only to broaden students’ analytical competency but also to enhance students’ writing and reporting skills on a technical subject.  




More Program and Degree Requirements





















Featured Courses









        BDA 511
            




View full course description for 
Introduction to Machine Learning



                  An introductory course on machine learning. Machine Learning is the science of discovering pattern and structure and…
              











        BDA 511
            



Introduction to Machine Learning





An introductory course on machine learning. Machine Learning is the science of discovering pattern and structure and making predictions in data sets. It lies at the interface of mathematics, statistics and computer science. The course gives an elementary summary of modern machine learning tools. Topics include regression, classification, regularization, resampling methods, and unsupervised learning. Students enrolled are expected to have some ability to write computer programs, some knowledge of probability, statistics and linear algebra. Prerequisites: MATH 312, MATH 316, and STAT 330 or STAT 331.


















        BDA 531
            




View full course description for 
Modern Statistical Methods for Big Data Analytics



                  The statistical perspective of data mining is emphasized for majority of the course. Both applied aspects (programming,…
              











        BDA 531
            



Modern Statistical Methods for Big Data Analytics





The statistical perspective of data mining is emphasized for majority of the course. Both applied aspects (programming, problem solving, and data analysis) and theoretical concepts (learning, understanding, and evaluating methodologies) of data mining will be covered. Topics include Regularization and Kernel Smoothing Methods, Tree-based Methods, Neural Networks and optional topics such as deep learning. Prerequisites: BDA 511 and STAT 505 or permission of the instructor.


















        STAT 625
            




View full course description for 
Mathematical Statistics I



                  An introduction to probability. Topics include axiomatic foundations of probability, conditional probability, Bayes…
              











        STAT 625
            



Mathematical Statistics I





An introduction to probability. Topics include axiomatic foundations of probability, conditional probability, Bayes formula, random variables, density and mass functions, stochastic independence, expectation, moment generating functions, transformations, common families of distributions, multiple random variables, covariance and correlation, multivariate distributions, convergence concepts, law of large numbers, limit theorems. Prerequisites: A grade of C+ or better in STAT 531.
















Full Course Catalog














        Cost
            




Estimated rates for the 2023-24 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.






Virginia Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$599





Technology Delivered Courses Outside Virginia and/or the United States

Cost Per-Credit
$623





Non-Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$1,439







Ways to Save
Here are a few ways for you to save on the cost of attending ODU. For more information visit University Student Financial aid






Cost Estimator











        Next Steps
            














        Explore Community
            




















        Request Information
            




















        Virtual Tour
            




















        Visit Campus
            



















Contact


















Ruhai Zhou


                  Professor
                


757-683-4378


rzhou@odu.edu



          2107 ENGR & COMP SCI BLDG          
        NORFOLK,            23529
  




















Contact



Graduate Admissions



 
          1000 Rollins Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3685
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3255
                
        fax
            
      








gradadmit@odu.edu

















Contact



International Admissions



 
          2101 Dragas Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3701
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3651
                
        fax
            
      








intladm@odu.edu


























Additional Programs
Are there other programs at ODU I may be interested in?
With over 120 undergraduate programs, 130 graduate programs at the master's, education specialist and doctoral levels plus a wealth of certificate and professional development programs, Old Dominion University has the program for you. Visit our academic program listing page to see other programs ODU has to offer.






























 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















