






















Addiction Prevention & Treatment (Certificate) | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



















Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Programs


                  Addiction Prevention & Treatment (Certificate)
              



Addiction Prevention & Treatment (Certificate)





Program HighlightsCareersCoursesRequirementsTransferCostNext-StepsContact





Request Info




Apply









 

























About this Program

Graduates will gain the knowledge, skills, and abilities to recognize the signs and symptoms of substance abuse, understand crisis intervention and relapse prevention strategies, develop substance abuse prevention and recovery programs, treat individuals and families affected by addiction, and make ethical decisions as a human services professional. This certificate may meet the educational (didactic) requirements for addiction credentialing, such as the Certified Substance Abuse Counselor (CSAC) and the Certified Substance Abuse Counselor-Assistant (CSAC-A) in Virginia.




Program Highlights


Accredited by Council for Standards in Human Service Education


Courses are aligned to meet SAMHSA core competencies for addiction practice


Finish in six courses (18 credit hours)


Courses available on-campus or online


May meet the didactic education requirements for the Virginia Board of Counseling Certified Substance Abuse Counselor








 




Available In-Person and Online




            AT A GLANCE
          


        Darden College of Education & Professional Studies
      



        Department of Counseling & Human Services
      


Degree Level

        Undergraduate
            


Degree Earned

        Certificate
            


Delivery Modes












Online















          On-Campus
      


















            Careers
          


Check out these ideas from ODU Career Development Services and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.














Social and Human Service Assistants






            $35,460
      
Median Salary




Assist in providing client services in a wide variety of fields, such as psychology, rehabilitation, or social work, including support for families. May assist clients in identifying and obtaining available benefits and social and community services. May assist social workers with developing, organizing, and conducting programs to prevent and resolve problems relevant to substance abuse, human relationships, rehabilitation, or dependent care.








Substance Abuse and Behavioral Disorder Counselors






            $48,050 (Approx)
      
Median Salary




Counsel and advise individuals with alcohol, tobacco, drug, or other problems, such as gambling and eating disorders. May counsel individuals, families, or groups or engage in prevention programs.








Probation Officers and Correctional Treatment Specialists






            $56,630
      
Median Salary




Provide social services to assist in rehabilitation of law offenders in custody or on probation or parole. Make recommendations for actions involving formulation of rehabilitation plan and treatment of offender, including conditional release and education and employment stipulations.








Mental Health and Substance Abuse Social Workers






            $47,830
      
Median Salary




Assess and treat individuals with mental, emotional, or substance abuse problems, including abuse of alcohol, tobacco, and/or other drugs. Activities may include individual and group therapy, crisis intervention, case management, client advocacy, prevention, and education.

























        Alumni Careers
            








        Virginia Beach Department of Human Services
            













        Virginia Community Services Boards
            













        Virginia Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Services
            













        St. Brides Correctional Facility
            



























Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for Addiction Prevention & Treatment at ODU?
Students entering the Certificate program in Addiction Prevention & Treatment should meet the minimum university admission requirements Undergraduate Admission.


Students transferring from other institutions are required to have a transcript analysis to ensure that the appropriate prerequisite requirements are met. Students' prior coursework will be evaluated by an advisor at the time of admission to the certificate program.




More Program and Degree Requirements








            Transfer
          

At ODU, we understand that as a transfer student you have unique needs that require a wide array of campus resources. The Center for Advising Administration and Academic Partnerships aims to create a transfer inclusive culture that supports the successful...



Transfer Info
























Featured Courses









        HMSV 447
            




View full course description for 
Introduction to Substance Abuse



                  This course develops the professional identity of the student as a practitioner of substance abuse services while…
              











        HMSV 447
            



Introduction to Substance Abuse





This course develops the professional identity of the student as a practitioner of substance abuse services while introducing the student to the signs and symptoms of substance abuse, the recovery process and relapse prevention methods. Prerequisites: HMSV 341 with a grade of C or better and HMSV 343 with a grade of C or better OR acceptance to the certificate in Addiction Prevention and Treatment and a test code of APTW.


















        HMSV 449
            




View full course description for 
Crisis Intervention, Prevention and Ethics



                  This course explores effective crisis intervention, examines prevention strategies, and develops students' ethical…
              











        HMSV 449
            



Crisis Intervention, Prevention and Ethics





This course explores effective crisis intervention, examines prevention strategies, and develops students' ethical decision making within human service practice. Prerequisites: HMSV 341 with a grade of C or higher and HMSV 343 with a grade of C or higher OR acceptance to the certificate in Addiction Prevention and Treatment and a test code of APTW.


















        HMSV 452
            




View full course description for 
Substance Abuse Treatment and Research



                  This course explores effective substance abuse treatment planning and intervention strategies through lectures and…
              











        HMSV 452
            



Substance Abuse Treatment and Research





This course explores effective substance abuse treatment planning and intervention strategies through lectures and experiential learning and examines research trends in the substance abuse field. Prerequisites: HMSV 341 with a grade of C or better, HMSV 343 with a grade of C or better and HMSV 447 with a grade of C or better OR acceptance to the certificate in Addiction Prevention and Treatment and a test code of APTW.




























        Cost
            




Estimated rates for the 2023-24 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.






Active Duty Military Rate

Cost Per-Credit
$250





Virginia Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$393





Technology Delivered Courses Outside Virginia and/or the United States

Cost Per-Credit
$407





Non-Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$1,073







Ways to Save
Here are a few ways for you to save on the cost of attending ODU. For more information visit University Student Financial aid






Cost Estimator








            Jessica Rhea Turner Scholarship 
      


Available for one student annually that meet with requirements 













        Next Steps
            














        Explore Community
            




















        Request Information
            




















        Virtual Tour
            




















        Visit Campus
            



















Contact


















Kristy Carlisle


                  Human Services Program Director
                


757-683-6132


kcarlisl@odu.edu



          2133 EDUCATION BUILDING          
        NORFOLK,            23529
  




















Chaniece Winfield


                  Human Services Online Program Director
                


757-683-6987


cwinfiel@odu.edu



          2127  EDUCATION BUILDING          
        NORFOLK,            23529
  




















Contact



Undergraduate Admissions



 
          1004 Rollins Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3685
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3255
                
        fax
            
      








admissions@odu.edu

















Contact



International Admissions



 
          2101 Dragas Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3701
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3651
                
        fax
            
      








intladm@odu.edu
































        Related Programs
            



Human Services (B.S.)





Related Minors

Human Services (Minor)




































 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















