





















Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU) | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



























 














Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU) & Teachers (RET)


                  Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU)
              



Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU)













The National Science Foundation (NSF) funds a large number of research opportunities for undergraduate (REU) students through its REU Sites program. An REU Site consists of a group of about ten undergraduates who work in the research programs of the host institution, and are housed at the host university. Each student is associated with a specific research project, where he/she works closely with the faculty and other researchers. Students are granted stipends and, in many cases, assistance with housing and travel.
Old Dominion University (ODU) has robust REU programs for students wanting to explore Chemistry (Community College Students), Computer & Information Science, Cybersecurity, and Psychology (Transportation).














Chemistry Research Opportunities for Community College Students
Deep Learning Driven Cybersecurity Research in a Multidisciplinary Environment
Research Experiences for Undergraduates in Disinformation Detection and Analytics
Interdisciplinary Research in Behavioral Sciences of Transportation Issues








 

This REU site provides opportunities for community college students (with a focus on Tidewater Community College and Thomas Nelson Community College) to perform research in the chemical sciences in topics ranging from sustainable energy production to development of materials with biomedical applications. REU students gain hands-on experience in the laboratory under the close mentorship of more experienced researchers and participate as a cohort in a series of professional development activities to include seminars, panel discussions and workshops.
















Learn More













Apply













 

Cybersecurity is a priority area of national need. As a multidisciplinary field, cybersecurity requires that the professionals have knowledge and skills in various disciplines. In this REU site program, students from multiple disciplines, such as computer science, computer engineering, criminal justice, information technology, and psychology, will explore a variety of cybersecurity topics, using Deep Learning or AI as a main methodology. The REU program is also enriched through various seminars and social activities.
















Learn More













Apply













 

This REU site provides hands-on learning experiences to undergraduates focused on disinformation detection and analytics at Old Dominion University (ODU) within the Department of Computer Science, in partnership with the Virginia Modeling, Analysis, and Simulation Center (VMASC) and the Department of Communication Disorders & Special Education. Disinformation exists in the form of "fake news", consisting of deliberate misinformation. For example, a recent study found that the use of cannabis as a cancer cure generated 4.26 million engagements on social media. In contrast, accurate news generated only 0.036 million engagements. The recently released special Eurobarometer survey found 71% of respondents encounter fake news several times a month or more often. Unfortunately, due to the lack of understanding of the basic and/or the best available science, and the limited accessibility of credible information, a vast number of citizens are susceptible to disinformation.
















Learn More













Apply













 

The goal of this REU Site on transportation in the behavioral sciences is to provide a diverse group of undergraduate researchers with training on research skills in various subfields of Psychology and Engineering that contribute to interdisciplinary transportation science. Students will be exposed to the interdisciplinary nature of transportation science and conduct research that has both theoretical and applied impact in various transportation areas. Students will learn a variety of behavioral science and engineering methods within human-in-the-loop simulation experiments, questionnaire-based behavioral research, and direct observation.
















Learn More













Apply





















Chemistry Research Opportunities for Community College Students





 

This REU site provides opportunities for community college students (with a focus on Tidewater Community College and Thomas Nelson Community College) to perform research in the chemical sciences in topics ranging from sustainable energy production to development of materials with biomedical applications. REU students gain hands-on experience in the laboratory under the close mentorship of more experienced researchers and participate as a cohort in a series of professional development activities to include seminars, panel discussions and workshops.
















Learn More













Apply














Deep Learning Driven Cybersecurity Research in a Multidisciplinary Environment





 

Cybersecurity is a priority area of national need. As a multidisciplinary field, cybersecurity requires that the professionals have knowledge and skills in various disciplines. In this REU site program, students from multiple disciplines, such as computer science, computer engineering, criminal justice, information technology, and psychology, will explore a variety of cybersecurity topics, using Deep Learning or AI as a main methodology. The REU program is also enriched through various seminars and social activities.
















Learn More













Apply














Research Experiences for Undergraduates in Disinformation Detection and Analytics





 

This REU site provides hands-on learning experiences to undergraduates focused on disinformation detection and analytics at Old Dominion University (ODU) within the Department of Computer Science, in partnership with the Virginia Modeling, Analysis, and Simulation Center (VMASC) and the Department of Communication Disorders & Special Education. Disinformation exists in the form of "fake news", consisting of deliberate misinformation. For example, a recent study found that the use of cannabis as a cancer cure generated 4.26 million engagements on social media. In contrast, accurate news generated only 0.036 million engagements. The recently released special Eurobarometer survey found 71% of respondents encounter fake news several times a month or more often. Unfortunately, due to the lack of understanding of the basic and/or the best available science, and the limited accessibility of credible information, a vast number of citizens are susceptible to disinformation.
















Learn More













Apply














Interdisciplinary Research in Behavioral Sciences of Transportation Issues





 

The goal of this REU Site on transportation in the behavioral sciences is to provide a diverse group of undergraduate researchers with training on research skills in various subfields of Psychology and Engineering that contribute to interdisciplinary transportation science. Students will be exposed to the interdisciplinary nature of transportation science and conduct research that has both theoretical and applied impact in various transportation areas. Students will learn a variety of behavioral science and engineering methods within human-in-the-loop simulation experiments, questionnaire-based behavioral research, and direct observation.
















Learn More













Apply



















Research Experiences


Home


REU Programs


Chemistry (Community College Students)


Computer & Information Science


Cybersecurity


Psychology (Transportation)




RET Programs


STEM












            NSF Home









 


 









Contact


Research Experiences



 


          238 KAUFMAN HALL          
        NORFOLK,           VA 23529
  










757-683-4913









x1zhang@odu.edu







Xiaoyu Zhang








































 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















