
























Class of 2023: Miriam Gourdine Continues Her Late Mother’s Legacy of Compassion Through an ODU Degree | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 




















Breadcrumb


Home


News Center


                  Class of 2023: Miriam Gourdine Continues Her Late Mother’s Legacy of Compassion Through an ODU Degree
              



Class of 2023: Miriam Gourdine Continues Her Late Mother’s Legacy of Compassion Through an ODU Degree














 April 25, 2023
            

share


















 



























By Kenya Godette
For Miriam Gourdine, graduating from Old Dominion University is more than just a step forward in her career goals. It’s also a continuation of her late mother’s legacy: service to mankind.
“This is for my daughters. This is for my mama, Diane,” she said. “She helped everybody; my mom would literally give you the shirt off her back.”
Gourdine, a transfer student from Virginia Peninsula Community College, began pursuing a bachelor’s degree at ODU in the fall of 2021. “It was always between human services and social work,” she said.
She eventually committed to the human services track with a concentration in substance abuse and addiction, saying that would better prepare her for her ultimate goal: starting a non-profit for homeless and at-risk families.
“If someone’s family need is bigger than their pocketbooks, I want to have resources to help,” Gourdine said. “I want to create a place for the people who others count out. I know there are a lot of people providing services like this, but I want to throw my hat in the ring. I’m always asking myself, ‘How can I do more?’”
Service to others is a core value of Gourdine’s that extends beyond her degree. She is a long-time volunteer for the Salvation Army and encourages her daughters to volunteer wherever they go. She hopes to instill in them what her mother instilled in her: “If I’m blessed, I have to bless others.”
Gourdine’s internship supervisor at the NATASHA House, a transitional home for homeless women and children in York County, her unwavering commitment to helping others shined. Dr. Karen Brown, Miriam’s internship supervisor and executive director of the NATASHA House said,
“Throughout the time I've known Miriam, as both her mentor and direct supervisor, I have seen many examples of her unfailing care, talent, dedication, and have long been impressed by her diligence, work ethic and selfless love. She has shown me time and again that she is a positive, motivated leader with amazing potential.”
Gourdine excitedly shared how she feels incredibly prepared as she advances to the next phase of her career. She talked about how her classes and internships were always relevant in real-world scenarios. Even now, her work as a program specialist for the Newport News Department of Human Services allows her to implement the lessons she learned in the classroom.
“I could refer back to my notes and apply them to my internships, and now, my job,” she said.
As a non-traditional student, Miriam worked hard to balance her home life, career and schoolwork. Maintaining a full-time job, being a mother of two, a wife, dog mom and student has not always been easy. She credits ODU with allowing her to complete her studies on a flexible schedule.
“I decided to go back to school when my youngest daughter started high school and I was very self-conscious about it. Why am I here? What point am I trying to prove?” Gourdine said. “At ODU, I never felt out of place. I was able to put age on the back burner. In every class, I felt welcomed and I never felt my age was a hindrance to me at all.”
Gourdine added that she was able to share her perspective as a mom and someone with more life experience with her younger classmates. So, she was a natural choice to speak at the ODU Campus Connection event in 2022.
“I never felt that I couldn’t do this … I’m about to cry,” she said emotionally. “This is something that I’ve wanted since I was in my early 20s. I’m so thankful that I came here. I love ODU for that!”
In true Gourdine fashion, she was not content with just being a student at ODU. She served as president for the Beta Gamma chapter of the Tau Alpha Upsilon Human Services Honor Society, as a member of the Tau Sigma National Honor Society, was chosen for the Behavioral Health Workforce Education and Training internship grant and was selected for the ODU Human Services outstanding intern award.
After graduation, Gourdine plans to “take a break and enjoy the moment of what I’ve accomplished. This is something I’ve wanted since I graduated high school in the late ’90s, mind your business!” she said jokingly. “I’m living in a prayer that I prayed so long ago.”
She is looking forward to spending more time with her daughters, husband and dog before she begins her next journey toward a master’s degree. She will, of course, continue volunteering.
On May 6, Gourdine’s family will cheer her on virtually and in person as she receives her Bachelor of Arts in Human Services. Her graduation gown will be adorned with a small turtle, one of her mother’s favorite animals.  
Gourdine also has a message for traditional and non-traditional students alike.
“For anyone who wants to get their degree, do that,” she said. “Don’t give up. Don’t let fear stop you. If it’s in your heart, give yourself permission to do it. Bet on yourself.”





























 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 

























