





















Off-Campus Students | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



























 














Breadcrumb


Home


Housing & Residence Life


Application Information


                  Off-Campus Students
              



Off-Campus Students













We are glad that you are interested in on-campus housing at Old Dominion University. This page contains process related information for off-campus students seeking to obtain housing for the 2023-2024 academic year. To ensure you have a successful experience navigating the housing application process, it is extremely important to read all material that is provided to you regarding sign-up.
Old Dominion University guarantees housing for new freshmen and current freshmen transitioning to their second year on campus. Housing & Residence Life staff work to maximize the opportunity to have as many students as possible experience residential living.
Due to the increased demand in on-campus housing, all off-campus students interested in on-campus housing will automatically be waitlisted. If you are interested in applying and adding your name to the housing waitlist, please continue reading the information below.
We look forward to having you join our community and wish you the best of luck here at Old Dominion University!
To apply, you will need:

An active MIDAS account, MIDAS ID, and password
A valid credit/debit card for the $250 application fee. Your application is not complete until your application fee is made.
 

Before you begin:

Review the Terms and Conditions of the Housing & Dining Contract to better understand the commitment you are making to ODU prior to applying for housing
Explore your options for Residential Communities and/or Living Learning Communities
Take the opportunity to review meal plan requirements/options for resident students

 
Important Process Updates

Effective immediately, all students are required to consent to providing their information to their assigned roommates. Consent can be given in the housing application under "Personal Details."
Once you are assigned housing, you will be able to select your meal plan directly through the Card Center. Instructions for selecting a meal plan will be available in the ODU Housing Portal and your housing confirmation notice.














Apply for On-Campus Housing




Housing Application Guide










Housing


Home


About


Place a Work Order


Residences


Take a Virtual Tour


Love Where You Live (Amenities/Benefits)


Neighborhoods




Housing Portal


Housing & Dining Contract


Rates


Housing Portal Login




Resident Resources


Counseling Services


MyODU Portal




FAQ


Calendar


News


Conference & Guest Services


Camps & Conferences


Summer Interns & Doctoral Students




New Employee Housing











Contact


Housing



 


          1208 Virginia House        4603 Elkhorn Ave.        
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  










757-683-4283
                
        office
            
      






757-683-4863
                
        fax
            
      









housing@odu.edu







Directory















Facebook













Instagram













Twitter
















        Quick Links
            



Housing Portal 


Guide to Living on Campus 


Room Rates 


Meal Plan Rates 


Important Dates 


Student Mail 


Student Employment 


Canceling Housing & Dining Contract 














            Fall 2024 Housing Information
      


March 27, 2024: Noon - Housing Application Opens via ODU Housing Portal

Off-campus students interested in on-campus housing may complete the housing application on or after March 27. Completed applications will be waitlisted and students assigned on a space available basis.

June 15, 2024: Cancellation deadline for $200 partial application fee refund

Note: After June 15, the $250 application fee is not refundable.

July 15, 2024: If spaces permits, Auto-Allocation of Off-Campus Students will begin

As a reminder, off-campus residents seeking to live on campus are not guaranteed housing. Only once all incoming (new) and return housing students are assigned will off campus students be offered an assignment.











            Expanded Housing
      


Housing & Residence Life may find it necessary to expand our capacity to support the opportunity for as many students as possible to live at ODU. Expanded housing accommodations for students may include the temporary expansion of on-campus spaces or securing off-site housing accommodations.
Residential amenities offered for traditional assignments are available to students living in expanded housing. These include room furnishings, desk coverage, secure access, staffing, laundry, meals, and shuttle service. Residents can and should utilize all campus resources available to any student living on-campus housing. Our staff are committed to ensuring your academic success wherever you reside.
Any student who completes an application for on-campus housing can be assigned to temporary accommodations. The length of stay can range from a few days to an entire semester. If a student is assigned to a temporary space, they will be reassigned to a permanent room as space permits. Moving assistance is available as needed. As with on-campus housing, you will be asked to consolidate your room if there is a vacancy. Our goal is to ensure you have a rewarding experience.










            Off-Campus Housing
      


As you consider your options for housing, feel free to explore the Off-Campus Student Life website. The Off-Campus Student Life Office was created as an initiative by the Dean of Students to provide a centralized location for off-campus students to receive guidance, support, and resources for their off-campus experience. The website also includes property listings of landlords in the area who would like to rent to ODU students.
Please note that the listing of off-campus residential properties is provided for informational purposes only and does not imply endorsement or recommendation of any off-campus residential property for security, safety, or suitability by the University. It is the responsibility of the prospective tenant to investigate security, safety and suitability of any off-campus residential property. ODU is not affiliated with any landlord that lists available property including ODUrent.
































 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















