






















Psychology (B.S.) | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



















Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Programs


                  Psychology (B.S.)
              



Psychology (B.S.)





Program HighlightsCareersCoursesRequirementsTransferCostNext-StepsContact





Request Info




Apply









 

























About this Program

The B.S. in Psychology is designed to provide a knowledge base of current methods, content areas, and theories. It seeks to facilitate the development of intellectual skills and characteristics that enhance the student's lifelong personal and career success. The program begins with a general psychology course and includes courses in scientific reasoning in psychology, quantitative methods and experimental design. Additional coursework is selected from a broad range of available courses. Students are encouraged to pursue breadth across the areas of psychology, particularly when planning for advanced study in psychology. The department does, however, identify sets of courses particularly relevant for students interested in health psychology, clinical, industrial/organizational, or human factors (engineering) psychology.




Program Highlights


Opportunity to participate in psychological research projects


Opportunities for experiential learning in the form of internships or practicums


Opportunities to engage in five psychology-related student organizations


Offers students four particular areas of interest within the Psychology program: Health Psychology, Clinical Psychology, Human Factors Psychology, Industrial/Organizational Psychology








 




Available In-Person and Online




            AT A GLANCE
          


        College of Sciences
      



        Psychology
      


Degree Level

        Undergraduate
            


Degree Earned

        Bachelor of Science
            


Delivery Modes












Online















          On-Campus
      


















            Careers
          


Check out these ideas from ODU Career Development Services and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.














School Psychologists






            $81,330
      
Median Salary




Investigate processes of learning and teaching and develop psychological principles and techniques applicable to educational problems.








Psychology Teachers, Postsecondary






            $85,050
      
Median Salary




Teach courses in psychology, such as child, clinical, and developmental psychology, and psychological counseling. Includes both teachers primarily engaged in teaching and those who do a combination of teaching and research.








Social and Human Service Assistants






            $35,460
      
Median Salary




Assist in providing client services in a wide variety of fields, such as psychology, rehabilitation, or social work, including support for families. May assist clients in identifying and obtaining available benefits and social and community services. May assist social workers with developing, organizing, and conducting programs to prevent and resolve problems relevant to substance abuse, human relationships, rehabilitation, or dependent care.








Industrial-Organizational Psychologists






            $102,530
      
Median Salary




Apply principles of psychology to human resources, administration, management, sales, and marketing problems. Activities may include policy planning; employee testing and selection, training and development; and organizational development and analysis. May work with management to organize the work setting to improve worker productivity.


































Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for Psychology at ODU?
Students entering the Bachelor of Science program in Psychology should meet the minimum university admission requirements Undergraduate Admission.


Complete 6 credits of Written Communication (ENGL 110 + another composition course)


Complete Psychology 201, Math 102 or 103 (or higher Math), all with a grade of C or better


Maintain an overall GPA and Psychology GPA of 2.0


Complete 30 earned credit hours


Until you complete these requirements, you should be advised by the College of Sciences advising team, located in the Advising Suite in MGB 236. After having completed these requirements, you can declare a Psychology major. To do this, you MUST attend a Declaration Session. See the bulletin board outside MGB 246 for Major Declaration Sessions




More Program and Degree Requirements








            Transfer
          

At ODU, we understand that as a transfer student you have unique needs that require a wide array of campus resources. The Center for Advising Administration and Academic Partnerships aims to create a transfer inclusive culture that supports the successful...



Transfer Info
























Featured Courses









        PSYC 303
            




View full course description for 
Industrial/Organizational Psychology



                  An application of psychological principles and research to human behavior in work settings. Among the topics covered…
              











        PSYC 303
            



Industrial/Organizational Psychology





An application of psychological principles and research to human behavior in work settings. Among the topics covered are personnel selection, training, and evaluation; employee motivation and job satisfaction; and organizational leadership and theory. Prerequisites: Completion of PSYC 201S with a grade of C (2.0) or higher.


















        PSYC 304
            




View full course description for 
Social Psychology



                  This course is part of the Day One Access program; you should not purchase any course materials denoted by the Day One…
              











        PSYC 304
            



Social Psychology





This course is part of the Day One Access program; you should not purchase any course materials denoted by the Day One Access logo as they are part of your course registration. In the event you drop this course from your schedule on or prior to the last day of DROP/ADD period, your account will be fully refunded automatically if you received a digital textbook. If you received a physical textbook you will need to return the textbook to the store and your account will be refunded at that time.


















        PSYC 405
            




View full course description for 
Psychopathology



                  A study of psychopathology, covering various behavior disorders, their descriptions, characteristics, and causation.…
              











        PSYC 405
            



Psychopathology





A study of psychopathology, covering various behavior disorders, their descriptions, characteristics, and causation. Methods of therapeutic technique are reviewed. Prerequisites: Completion of PSYC 201S with a grade of C (2.0) or higher.
















Full Course Catalog














        Cost
            




Estimated rates for the 2023-24 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.






Active Duty Military Rate

Cost Per-Credit
$250





Virginia Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$393





Technology Delivered Courses Outside Virginia and/or the United States

Cost Per-Credit
$407





Non-Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$1,073







Ways to Save
Here are a few ways for you to save on the cost of attending ODU. For more information visit University Student Financial aid






Cost Estimator








            The Sarah E. Armstrong Science Scholarship Endowment 
      


The Sarah E. Armstrong Science Scholarship Endowment was established in 2002 in memory of Sarah E. Armstrong. The recipient must be a full-time student who has been accepted into the College of Sciences and must have an overall cumulative 3.2 grade point average. 






            The Science Museum of Eastern Virginia Prize 
      


The Science Museum of Eastern Virginia Prize was established by the Science Museum Association of Eastern Virginia in 1998. The award is given to one or more junior students majoring in biology, chemistry, computer science, geology, math, oceanography, physics or psychology. The recipient(s) must have at least a 3.25 grade point average. 






            *The A. Kenneth Scribner Science Scholarships 
      


*The A. Kenneth Scribner Science Scholarships are made possible by the family of the late Mr. Scribner, former president of Virginia Chemicals, Inc. and a former member of the Old Dominion University Board of Visitors. Established in 1978, the scholarships assist students majoring in science or a science-related field who have demonstrated financial need and show capability and industry in scientific studies. Preference is given to graduates of Hampton Roads public schools. (FAFSA) 






            Michael Greenspan/ODU Psychology Study Abroad Scholarship 
      


Michael Greenspan/ODU Psychology Study Abroad Scholarship - This award is given each year for a selected Psychology Major to study psychology at one of ODU's partner institutions in the United Kingdom. Students interested in this opportunity should contact the ODU Study Abroad Office. 













        Next Steps
            














        Explore Community
            




















        Request Information
            




















        Virtual Tour
            




















        Visit Campus
            



















Contact




















                  Undergraduate Program Director: Jennifer Muth Younkin
                




















Contact



Undergraduate Admissions



 
          1004 Rollins Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3685
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3255
                
        fax
            
      








admissions@odu.edu

















Contact



International Admissions



 
          2101 Dragas Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3701
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3651
                
        fax
            
      








intladm@odu.edu


























Additional Programs
Are there other programs at ODU I may be interested in?
With over 120 undergraduate programs, 130 graduate programs at the master's, education specialist and doctoral levels plus a wealth of certificate and professional development programs, Old Dominion University has the program for you. Visit our academic program listing page to see other programs ODU has to offer.






























 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















