



 Competitive Analysis - Entrepreneur.com | Entrepreneur




































































Skip to content




Menu



Close Menu

 
 

Entrepreneur Landing Page






















      Sign In
          





      Subscribe
          




Search











Entrepreneur Landing Page





















Search





Close Menu

 






      Subscribe to Entrepreneur
          





            Starting a Business
          



            Growing a Business
          



            Leadership
          



            Small Business Guide
          



            Business News
          



            Science & Technology
          



            Money & Finance
          



            Living
          



            Franchise
          










 
              For Subscribers
            


















 
              Write for Entrepreneur
            




















 
              Bookstore
            









 
              Ask an Expert
            










 
              Podcasts
            













 
              Video
            










 
              Entrepreneur TV
            











 
              Webinars
            







              Entrepreneur Store
            
















 
              Spotlight
            















              Magazine Subscription
            










 
            Edition
          


Plus

 
Minus

 


United States
Spanish
Georgia
India
Asia Pacific
Middle East
Europe
South Africa






Facebook

 


X

 


LinkedIn

 


YouTube





 


Instagram

















 


TikTok

 


Snapchat

 


RSS


 

Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC










Home

 Home






Breadcrumb Arrow

 
            Starting a Business
          
















📺 Stream EntrepreneurTV for Free 📺







  Competitive Analysis
  
    How will your business compete? Explain it well in your business plan's competitive analysis.
  






              Aug 1, 2006
            




          Share        


Copy


 














The competitive analysis is a statement of the business strategy and how it relates to the competition. The purpose of the competitive analysis is to determine the strengths and weaknesses of the competitors within your market, strategies that will provide you with a distinct advantage, the barriers that can be developed in order to prevent competition from entering your market, and any weaknesses that can be exploited within the product development cycle.The first step in a competitor analysis is to identify the current and potential competition. As mentioned in the "Market Strategies" chapter, there are essentially two ways you can identify competitors. The first is to look at the market from the customer's viewpoint and group all your competitors by the degree to which they contend for the buyer's dollar. The second method is to group competitors according to their various competitive strategies so you understand what motivates them.Once you have grouped your competitors, you can start to analyze their strategies and identify the areas where they are most vulnerable. This can be done through an examination of your competitors' weaknesses and strengths. A competitor's strengths and weaknesses are usually based on the presence and absence of key assets and skills needed to compete in the market.



To determine just what constitutes a key asset or skill within an industry, David A. Aaker in his book, Developing Business Strategies suggests concentrating your efforts in four areas:1. The reasons behind successful as well as unsuccessful firms2. Prime customer motivators3. Major component costs4. Industry mobility barriersAccording to theory, the performance of a company within a market is directly related to the possession of key assets and skills. Therefore, an analysis of strong performers should reveal the causes behind such a successful track record. This analysis, in conjunction with an examination of unsuccessful companies and the reasons behind their failure, should provide a good idea of just what key assets and skills are needed to be successful within a given industry and market segment.


For instance, in the personal-computer operating-system software market, Microsoft reigns supreme with DOS and Windows. It has been able to establish its dominance in this industry because of superior marketing and research as well strategic partnerships with a large majority of the hardware vendors that produce personal computers. This has allowed DOS and Windows to become the operating environment, maybe not of choice, but of necessity for the majority of personal computers on the market.Microsoft's primary competitors, Apple and IBM, both have competing operating systems with a great deal of marketing to accompany them; however, both suffer from weaknesses that Microsoft has been able to exploit. Apple's operating system for its Macintosh line of computers, while superior in many ways to DOS and Windows, is limited to the Macintosh personal computers; therefore, it doesn't run many of the popular business applications that are readily available to DOS and Windows. To an extent, IBM's OS/2 operating system suffers from the same problem. While it will run on all of the personal computers DOS and Windows can run on and even handle Windows applications, the number of programs produced for OS/2 in its native environment is very small. This is the type of detailed analysis you need in analyzing an industry.Through your competitor analysis you will also have to create a marketing strategy that will generate an asset or skill competitors do not have, which will provide you with a distinct and enduring competitive advantage. Since competitive advantages are developed from key assets and skills, you should sit down and put together a competitive strength grid. This is a scale that lists all your major competitors or strategic groups based upon their applicable assets and skills and how your own company fits on this scale.To put together a competitive strength grid, list all the key assets and skills down the left margin of a piece of paper. Along the top, write down two column headers: "weakness" and "strength." In each asset or skill category, place all the competitors that have weaknesses in that particular category under the weakness column, and all those that have strengths in that specific category in the strength column. After you've finished, you'll be able to determine just where you stand in relation to the other firms competing in your industry.


Once you've established the key assets and skills necessary to succeed in this business and have defined your distinct competitive advantage, you need to communicate them in a strategic form that will attract market share as well as defend it. Competitive strategies usually fall into these five areas:.Product.Distribution.Pricing.Promotion.AdvertisingMany of the factors leading to the formation of a strategy should already have been highlighted in previous sections, specifically in marketing strategies. Strategies primarily revolve around establishing the point of entry in the product life cycle and an endurable competitive advantage. As we've already discussed, this involves defining the elements that will set your product or service apart from your competitors or strategic groups. You need to establish this competitive advantage clearly so the reader understands not only how you will accomplish your goals, but why your strategy will work.
 







                Want to be an Entrepreneur Leadership Network contributor?
                
  Apply now to join.







              Editor's Pick                  

Red Arrow











Lock



To Make Your First Million Dollars, Draw Up This Venn Diagram: 'You Want to Fall Right in the Middle. If You Do, I Think It'll Take 5 Years'
                




An Aggressive 1980s Marketing Campaign Made Many Americans Believe Cinco De Mayo Is Something It's Not. Are You One of Them?




Lock



                  9 Productivity Tips That the 1% Know to Follow





AI Is Transforming Drug Matching for Cancer, Rare Diseases — Here's How
                




                  From Pups to Profits — These Are the Top Pet Franchises for 2024




Lock



When Your Company Hits This 'Critical Mark,' Big Investors and Private Equity Will Come Calling
                






Most Popular


Red Arrow









        See all        

Chevron Right






















          Business News
                  


                  'Everyone Is in Complete Shock': A 500-Person Tesla Team Found Out 'in the Middle of the Night' Their Charger Division Was Laid Off
                  


          Other car companies that use the technology, such as General Motors and Ford, also weren't expecting the news, according to reports.
        











        By        Sherin Shibu
      




















          Business News
                  


                  There Are Only 6 Major Cities Left in the U.S. With 'Affordable' Homes Matching Median Incomes — Here's the List
                  


          Homeownership is not affordable for the typical household in 44 of the 50 largest cities in the U.S. 
        











        By        Sherin Shibu
      




















          Side Hustle
                  


                  He Started a Salty Backyard Side Hustle That Out-Earned His Full-Time Job and Now Makes Over $1 Million a Year: 'Take the Leap'
                  


          In 2011, Kyle Needham turned his passion for oysters into a business that saw consistent monthly revenue "right away."
        











        By        Amanda Breen
      




















          Living
                  


                  An Aggressive 1980s Marketing Campaign Made Many Americans Believe Cinco De Mayo Is Something It's Not. Are You One of Them?
                  


          Sixty percent of U.S. adults are incorrect about or unsure of the holiday's history.
        











        By        Amanda Breen
      




















          Business Ideas
                  


                  63 Small Business Ideas to Start in 2024
                  


          We put together a list of the best, most profitable small business ideas for entrepreneurs to pursue in 2024. 
        











        By        The Staff of Entrepreneur Media, Inc.
      




















          Business News
                  


                  James Clear's Atoms App Promises to Help Break Bad Habits and Create Better Ones — Here's How It Works
                  


          The app turns Clear's best-selling book, "Atomic Habits," into something actionable.
        











        By        Sherin Shibu
      
















Success

 


							Successfully copied link
						











          Terms of Use
        

          Privacy Policy
        

          Cookies Policy
        

          Accessibility Statement
        

          Site Map
        

          Contact Support
        

          Advertise
        




Sign up for our free Daily newsletter
We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur.










Facebook

 


X

 


LinkedIn

 


YouTube





 


Instagram

















 


TikTok

 


Snapchat

 


RSS


 



            Copyright © 2024 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
          

































