






















Physical Therapy (D.P.T.) | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



















Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Programs


                  Physical Therapy (D.P.T.)
              



Physical Therapy (D.P.T.)





Program HighlightsCareersCoursesRequirementsCostNext-StepsContact





Request Info




Apply









 

























About this Program

The Doctor of Physical Therapy (DPT) program at Old Dominion University is a full-time three-year curriculum that includes classroom instruction, laboratory instruction and practice, online interactions, readings and homework assignments, discussions, peer-teaching, seminars and clinical experiences. Our mission is to prepare graduates to prevent, diagnose, and treat dysfunction and to enhance the well-being of individuals and the community. Upon successful completion of this program, graduates are eligible to take the licensing exam to be able to practice as physical therapist.




Program Highlights


Our faculty are dedicated to excellence in professional teaching, research, and service to the profession, the university, and the community


Students work with standardized patients to develop their interactive skills, because what good is knowledge if you cannot apply it in a socially skillful way?


The program provides opportunities for clinical education experiences in a variety of health care institutions, agencies, and practice settings


Faculty continually review and modify learning activities to reflect emerging discoveries in best care practices and changing modes of communication


The Doctor of Physical Therapy program at Old Dominion University is accredited by the Commission on Accreditation in Physical Therapy Education (CAPTE), 3030 Potomac Ave., Suite 100, Alexandria, Virginia 22305-3085; telephone: 703-706-3245; email: accreditation@apta.org; website: http://www.capteonline.org.

View verification of the program’s current status with CAPTE.

If needing to contact the program/institution directly, please call 757-683-4682 or email Archana Vatwani at avatwani@odu.edu .










            AT A GLANCE
          


        College of Health Sciences
      



        Rehabilitation Sciences
      


Degree Level

        Graduate
            


Degree Earned

        Doctor of Physical Therapy
            


Delivery Modes












          On-Campus
      


















            Careers
          


Check out these ideas from ODU Career Development Services and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.














Physical Therapists






            $88,080
      
Median Salary




Assess, plan, organize, and participate in rehabilitative programs that improve mobility, relieve pain, increase strength, and improve or correct disabling conditions resulting from disease or injury.

























        Alumni Careers
            








        Hospitals 
            













        Clinics & Private Practices 
            













        School Systems
            













        Rehibilitation Centers
            













        Nursing Facilities
            













        Home-Health 
            



























Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for Physical Therapy at ODU?
Students entering the Doctor of Physical Therapy program in Physical Therapy should meet the minimum university admission requirements Graduate Admission.


Each year the DPT Program accepts about 40 students.  They start the program in late May and move through the semesters as a cohort to graduate in May, three years later.




Have completed or be in the process of completing a bachelor’s degree from a regionally-accredited institution


Have completed or be in the process of completing all science prerequisite courses as listed on our Prospective Students page


Complete the Graduate Record Exam – a score of 148 each on the verbal and quantitative sections and 3.5 on the writing section is recommended


Complete at least 40 hours of volunteer or paid work/observation of physical therapy practice in at least TWO (2) distinctly different PT clinics or settings (treating different patient populations) under the supervision of a licensed physical therapist.


Complete an ODU graduate admissions application in addition to the Physical Therapist Centralized Application Service (PTCAS)




More Program and Degree Requirements





















Featured Courses









        PT 655
            




View full course description for 
Clinical Problem Solving I



                  This course integrates material from first-year courses using case scenario role playing, short case vignettes, and…
              











        PT 655
            



Clinical Problem Solving I





This course integrates material from first-year courses using case scenario role playing, short case vignettes, and standardized patients to facilitate clinical skill competencies and clinical decision making. Also covered are professional topics such as interprofessional collaboration competencies (IPEC), direct access, the ICF model, documentation, and emergency procedures.


















        PT 669
            




View full course description for 
Clinical Experience I



                  This first full-time clinical education experience begins at the end of the first academic year of the program and is…
              











        PT 669
            



Clinical Experience I





This first full-time clinical education experience begins at the end of the first academic year of the program and is designed to permit progressive responsibility in patient evaluation and treatment based upon material learned in classes during the first year. Each student is required to provide one in-service presentation during the clinical learning experience.


















        PT 890
            




View full course description for 
Differential Diagnosis Seminar



                  The focus of this seminar will be on the integration of the foundational and clinical sciences to analyze and solve…
              











        PT 890
            



Differential Diagnosis Seminar





The focus of this seminar will be on the integration of the foundational and clinical sciences to analyze and solve patient-based clinical problems to arrive at a diagnosis. Students will be expected to explain their reasoning and defend their decisions.
















Full Course Catalog














        Cost
            




Estimated rates for the 2023-24 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.






Virginia Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$599





Technology Delivered Courses Outside Virginia and/or the United States

Cost Per-Credit
$623





Non-Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$1,439







Ways to Save
Here are a few ways for you to save on the cost of attending ODU. For more information visit University Student Financial aid






Cost Estimator








            Scholarships
      


Scholarships in the range of $1,000 to $2,000 are available for three DPT students who have successfully completed their first year of study. The application process is competitive. 






            Assistantships
      


Graduate assistant jobs are available for two DPT students who have completed their first year and a half of study. The application process is competitive. 






            On-Campus Employment
      


After the first year of study, some students take on-campus jobs at the Student Recreation Center helping people with disabilities complete an adapted workout routine. 













        Next Steps
            














        Explore Community
            




















        Request Information
            




















        Virtual Tour
            




















        Visit Campus
            



















Contact


















Beth Jamali


                  Graduate Program Director
                


757-683-4381


bjamali@odu.edu



          3110 HEALTH SCIENCES BLDG          
        NORFOLK,            23529
  




















Contact



Graduate Admissions



 
          1000 Rollins Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3685
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3255
                
        fax
            
      








gradadmit@odu.edu

















Contact



International Admissions



 
          2101 Dragas Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3701
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3651
                
        fax
            
      








intladm@odu.edu
































        Related Programs
            



Athletic Training (M.S.A.T.)






































 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















