






















Electrical and Computer Engineering (Engineering & M.S.) | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



















Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Programs


                  Electrical and Computer Engineering (Engineering & M.S.)
              



Electrical and Computer Engineering (Engineering & M.S.)





Program HighlightsCareersCoursesRequirementsTransferCostNext-StepsContact





Request Info




Apply









 

























About this Program

This linked bachelor's/master's degree program is designed to provide an opportunity for exceptionally qualified engineering undergraduate students to obtain both a bachelors and a master's degree in Electrical and Computer Engineering. Typically undergraduate students apply at the end of their junior year for admission to a linked program. Full-time students can complete the requirements for the bachelor’s degree in four years and for the master’s degree in one additional year.




Program Highlights


Engineering students with GPA >= 3.0 can apply for the ECE graduate program through a linked BS/MS program.


Students can take two graduate courses double counted for the BS degree and a graduate degree.


For BS/MS program, students need only 24 credit hours and can start working with a research advisor during their senior year.


No need for a formal application such as reference letters, essay, and GRE scores










            AT A GLANCE
          


        Batten College of Engineering & Technology
      



        Electrical & Computer Engineering
      


Degree Level

        Linked
            


Degree Earned

        U.G. & Masters
            


Delivery Modes












          On-Campus
      


















            Careers
          


Check out these ideas from ODU Career Development Services and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.














Electronics Engineers, Except Computer






            $106,760
      
Median Salary




Research, design, develop, or test electronic components and systems for commercial, industrial, military, or scientific use employing knowledge of electronic theory and materials properties. Design electronic circuits and components for use in fields such as telecommunications, aerospace guidance and propulsion control, acoustics, or instruments and controls.








Electrical Engineers






            $99,580
      
Median Salary




Research, design, develop, test, or supervise the manufacturing and installation of electrical equipment, components, or systems for commercial, industrial, military, or scientific use.








Computer Hardware Engineers






            $119,650
      
Median Salary




Research, design, develop, or test computer or computer-related equipment for commercial, industrial, military, or scientific use. May supervise the manufacturing and installation of computer or computer-related equipment and components.


































Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for Electrical and Computer Engineering at ODU?
Students entering the U.G. & Masters program in Electrical and Computer Engineering should meet the minimum university admission requirements Undergraduate Admission.


Students who are matriculated in an undergraduate major in the Frank Batten College of Engineering and Technology with a GPA of at least 3.00 overall and 3.00 in the major are eligible to apply for admission to a linked Bachelor’s/Master’s program. Transfer students who desire to be admitted to a linked program at the time they join an undergraduate major at Old Dominion University are eligible to apply if their overall GPA at their previous institution is 3.25 or higher. Pre-requisite courses may be required for engineering technology majors to pursue a Master’s degree in engineering.




More Program and Degree Requirements








            Transfer
          

At ODU, we understand that as a transfer student you have unique needs that require a wide array of campus resources. The Center for Advising Administration and Academic Partnerships aims to create a transfer inclusive culture that supports the successful...



Transfer Info
























Featured Courses









        ECE 516
            




View full course description for 
Cyber Defense Fundamentals



                  This course focuses on cybersecurity theory, information protection and assurance, and computer systems and networks…
              











        ECE 516
            



Cyber Defense Fundamentals





This course focuses on cybersecurity theory, information protection and assurance, and computer systems and networks security. The objectives are to understand the basic security models and concepts, learn fundamental knowledge and tools for building, analyzing, and attacking modern security systems, and gain hands-on experience in cryptographic algorithms, security fundamental principles, and Internet security protocol and standards. (Offered fall) Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor. Pre- or corequisite: ECE 355.


















        ECE 601
            




View full course description for 
Linear Systems



                  A comprehensive introduction to the analysis of linear dynamical systems from an input-output and state space point of…
              











        ECE 601
            



Linear Systems





A comprehensive introduction to the analysis of linear dynamical systems from an input-output and state space point of view. Concepts from linear algebra, numerical linear algebra and linear operator theory are used throughout. Some elements of state feedback design and state estimation are also covered. Prerequisites: MATH 307.


















        ECE 505
            




View full course description for 
Power System Design & Analysis



                  This course covers basic power circuit analysis and introductory power system engineering and focuses on the…
              











        ECE 505
            



Power System Design & Analysis





This course covers basic power circuit analysis and introductory power system engineering and focuses on the transmission line design, power flow study, short circuit protection, and power distribution in electric power systems, followed by a survey of several applications and case studies. (offered fall) Prerequisites: ECE 303 or equivalent knowledge in electric machines and circuits.




























        Cost
            




Estimated rates for the 2023-24 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.






Active Duty Military Rate

Cost Per-Credit
$250





Virginia Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$393





Technology Delivered Courses Outside Virginia and/or the United States

Cost Per-Credit
$407





Non-Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$1,073







Ways to Save
Here are a few ways for you to save on the cost of attending ODU. For more information visit University Student Financial aid






Cost Estimator











        Next Steps
            














        Explore Community
            




















        Request Information
            




















        Virtual Tour
            




















        Visit Campus
            



















Contact


















Chung Hao Chen


                  Associate Professor
                


757-683-3475


cxchen@odu.edu



          231 KAUFMAN HALL          
        NORFOLK,            23529
  




















Oscar Gonzalez


                  Professor & Chair
                


757-683-4966


ogonzale@odu.edu



          2310 KAUFMAN HALL          
        NORFOLK,            23529
  




















Contact



Graduate Admissions



 
          1000 Rollins Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3685
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3255
                
        fax
            
      








gradadmit@odu.edu

















Contact



International Admissions



 
          2101 Dragas Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3701
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3651
                
        fax
            
      








intladm@odu.edu
































        Related Programs
            



Electrical & Computer Engineering (Engineering, M.S.)


Electrical & Computer Engineering (Engineering, Ph.D.)


Electrical and Computer Engineering (Engineering, B.S. & Ph.D.)


Engineering Major (B.S.) and Biomedical Engineering (M.E./M.S.)


Engineering Major (B.S.) and Biomedical Engineering (Ph.D.)


Biomedical Engineering (Engineering, M.S./M.E.)


Biomedical Engineering (Engineering, Ph.D.)


Biomedical Engineering (Graduate Certificate)






































 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















