






















Modeling & Simulation (Minor) | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



















Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Programs


                  Modeling & Simulation (Minor)
              



Modeling & Simulation (Minor)





Program HighlightsCareersCoursesRequirementsTransferCostNext-StepsContact





Request Info




Apply









 

























About this Program

This minor is a good fit for those who are majoring in computer science, physics, mathematics, electrical engineering, mechanical engineering, and civil engineering at ODU. Students will learn how to formally model complex systems and then to use computer simulation to study the system behavior. Science and engineering students looking to improve their ability to study complex systems in their field through the use of computer simulations will benefit from the simulation application track as they already have the prerequisite math, science, and programming coursework. The development track focuses on the software development of simulations. The application track focuses on the use of simulation tools.




Program Highlights


Faculty research opportunities


Two tracks within the modeling and simulation minor: Simulation Application and Simulation Development








 




Available In-Person and Online




            AT A GLANCE
          


        Batten College of Engineering & Technology
      


Degree Level

        Undergraduate
            


Degree Earned

        Minor
            


Delivery Modes












Online















          On-Campus
      


















            Careers
          


Check out these ideas from ODU Career Development Services and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.














Computer Systems Analysts






            $92,740
      
Median Salary




Analyze science, engineering, business, and other data processing problems to implement and improve computer systems. Analyze user requirements, procedures, and problems to automate or improve existing systems and review computer system capabilities, workflow, and scheduling limitations. May analyze or recommend commercially available software.








Software Developers, Applications






            $106,710
      
Median Salary




Develop, create, and modify general computer applications software or specialized utility programs. Analyze user needs and develop software solutions. Design software or customize software for client use with the aim of optimizing operational efficiency. May analyze and design databases within an application area, working individually or coordinating database development as part of a team. May supervise computer programmers.








Computer Programmers






            $87,530
      
Median Salary




Create, modify, and test the code, forms, and script that allow computer applications to run. Work from specifications drawn up by software developers or other individuals. May assist software developers by analyzing user needs and designing software solutions. May develop and write computer programs to store, locate, and retrieve specific documents, data, and information.








Video Game Designers






            $91,080
      
Median Salary




Design core features of video games. Specify innovative game and role-play mechanics, story lines, and character biographies. Create and maintain design documentation. Guide and collaborate with production staff to produce games as designed.


































Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for Modeling & Simulation at ODU?
Students entering the Minor program in Modeling & Simulation should meet the minimum university admission requirements Undergraduate Admission.


To enter the program, students must have completed calculus and one college-level computer-programming course (CS 150, ENGN 150 or equivalent)”. “An undergraduate minor in modeling and simulation may be obtained by successful completion of 12 or more credit hours of approved modeling and simulation engineering coursework at the 200-, 300-, and 400- level.” The chief departmental advisor for the Department of Computational Modeling and Simulation Engineering must approve the precise course of study in the minor.




More Program and Degree Requirements








            Transfer
          

At ODU, we understand that as a transfer student you have unique needs that require a wide array of campus resources. The Center for Advising Administration and Academic Partnerships aims to create a transfer inclusive culture that supports the successful...



Transfer Info
























Featured Courses









        MSIM 441
            




View full course description for 
Computer Graphics and Visualization



                  The course provides a practical treatment of computer graphics and visualization with emphasis on modeling and…
              











        MSIM 441
            



Computer Graphics and Visualization





The course provides a practical treatment of computer graphics and visualization with emphasis on modeling and simulation applications. It covers digital image and signal processing basics such as sampling and discrete Fourier transform, computer graphics fundamentals, visualization principles, and software architecture for visualization in modeling and simulation. Written communication and information literacy skills are stressed in this course. (Cross listed with ECE 406/506.) (Offered fall) Prerequisites: a grade C or better in CS 361 or ECE 348.


















        MSIM 205
            




View full course description for 
Discrete Event Simulation



                  An introduction to the modeling and simulation of discrete-state, event-driven systems. Topics include: basic…
              











        MSIM 205
            



Discrete Event Simulation





An introduction to the modeling and simulation of discrete-state, event-driven systems. Topics include: basic properties and terminology for discrete event systems (DES); models for DES including queuing models, Petri nets, and state automata; and methodologies for simulating DES models. Investigation of the steps of a DES simulation study including problem formulation, conceptual model design, simulation model development, input data modeling, output data analysis, verification and validation, and design of simulation experiments. Corequisite: MSIM 281. Prerequisites: MSIM 201. Pre- or corequisite: STAT 330.


















        MSIM 331
            




View full course description for 
Simulation Software Design



                  Introduction to data structures, algorithms, programming methodologies, and software architectures in support of…
              











        MSIM 331
            



Simulation Software Design





Introduction to data structures, algorithms, programming methodologies, and software architectures in support of computer simulation. Topics include lists, queues, sets, trees, searching, sorting, reusable code, and order of complexity. Simulation structures developed include event lists, time management, and queuing models. Software models are implemented and tested. Corequisite: MSIM 383. Prerequisites: MSIM 205, CS 330 and CS 381.




























        Cost
            




Estimated rates for the 2023-24 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.






Active Duty Military Rate

Cost Per-Credit
$250





Virginia Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$393





Technology Delivered Courses Outside Virginia and/or the United States

Cost Per-Credit
$407





Non-Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$1,073







Ways to Save
Here are a few ways for you to save on the cost of attending ODU. For more information visit University Student Financial aid






Cost Estimator











        Next Steps
            














        Explore Community
            




















        Request Information
            




















        Virtual Tour
            




















        Visit Campus
            



















Contact




















                  Academic Advisor & Program Manager
                




















Contact



Undergraduate Admissions



 
          1004 Rollins Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3685
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3255
                
        fax
            
      








admissions@odu.edu

















Contact



International Admissions



 
          2101 Dragas Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3701
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3651
                
        fax
            
      








intladm@odu.edu
































        Related Programs
            



Modeling & Simulation Engineering (B.S.COM.E.-MSE)


Information Systems & Technology (B.S.B.A.)


Computer Science (B.S.C.S.)


Computer Science (Minor)


Information Systems & Technology (Minor)






































 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















