






















English with Teaching Licensure (B.A.) | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



















Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Programs


                  English with Teaching Licensure (B.A.)
              



English with Teaching Licensure (B.A.)





Program HighlightsCareersCoursesRequirementsTransferCostNext-StepsContact





Request Info




Apply









 

























About this Program

This program leads to eligibility for teacher licensure in Virginia. Licensure in English prepares students for a full range of secondary school teaching assignments. The program is accredited by the State of Virginia; in addition, Virginia has licensure reciprocity agreements with thirty other states, should the student leave Virginia. The program combines the usual requirements of a college major and minor. Students take courses in the English department (ENGL) of the College of Arts and Letters and Teaching and Learning department of the Darden College of Education and Professional Studies. Students receive a Bachelor of Arts in English. Graduates of our program have been recognized for their teaching across the Hampton Roads schools.




Program Highlights


Prepares reflective, equity-minded English teachers with strong disciplinary backgrounds


Provides opportunities to participate in field experiences in schools, as well as in university and community programs that aim to empower readers and writers


Offers an option of working toward a Teaching English as a Second Language (TESL) certificate through Old Dominion University’s English Department


Invites alumni to participate in a teacher inquiry group that supports them in their professional growth and reflective practice as they transition from the university to the classroom










            AT A GLANCE
          


        College of Arts & Letters
      



        English
      


Degree Level

        Undergraduate
            


Degree Earned

        Bachelor of Arts
            


Delivery Modes












          On-Campus
      


















            Careers
          


Check out these ideas from ODU Career Development Services and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.














Recreation Workers






            $27,950
      
Median Salary




Conduct recreation activities with groups in public, private, or volunteer agencies or recreation facilities. Organize and promote activities, such as arts and crafts, sports, games, music, dramatics, social recreation, camping, and hobbies, taking into account the needs and interests of individual members.








Editors






            $68,230
      
Median Salary




Plan, coordinate, or edit content of material for publication. May review proposals and drafts for possible publication. Includes technical editors.








Instructional Coordinators






            $66,680
      
Median Salary




Develop instructional material, coordinate educational content, and incorporate current technology in specialized fields that provide guidelines to educators and instructors for developing curricula and conducting courses. Includes educational consultants and specialists, and instructional material directors.








Secondary School Teachers, Except Special and Career/Technical Education






            $62,860
      
Median Salary




Teach students in one or more subjects, such as English, mathematics, or social studies at the secondary level in public or private schools. May be designated according to subject matter specialty.


































Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for English with Teaching Licensure at ODU?
Students entering the Bachelor of Arts program in English with Teaching Licensure should meet the minimum university admission requirements Undergraduate Admission.


Apply for and be admitted into the approved English teacher preparation program after 60 credits of coursework


Maintain the minimum required grade point averages (GPA):

A cumulative GPA of 2.75 is required.


A major/content GPA of 2.75 is required – all upper-division English courses must be passed with a grade of C- or higher. Lower-division and English W courses must be passed with a grade of C or higher.


A professional education GPA of 2.75 is required – all professional education courses must be passed with a grade of C- or higher.





More Program and Degree Requirements








            Transfer
          

At ODU, we understand that as a transfer student you have unique needs that require a wide array of campus resources. The Center for Advising Administration and Academic Partnerships aims to create a transfer inclusive culture that supports the successful...



Transfer Info
























Featured Courses









        ENGL 406
            




View full course description for 
The Teaching of Literature



                  This course is designed to provide an intensive examination of issues, approaches, and methods utilized in the teaching…
              











        ENGL 406
            



The Teaching of Literature





This course is designed to provide an intensive examination of issues, approaches, and methods utilized in the teaching of literature, particularly literature written for children and young adults. Prerequisites: One 300-level literature course or permission of the instructor.


















        ENGL 455
            




View full course description for 
The Teaching of Composition, Grades 6-12



                  A study of the theory and practice of teaching writing. Special attention will be given to the ways effective teachers…
              











        ENGL 455
            



The Teaching of Composition, Grades 6-12





A study of the theory and practice of teaching writing. Special attention will be given to the ways effective teachers allow theories and experiences to inform their pedagogical strategies. Prerequisites: ENGL 300W or ENGL 327W or permission of the instructor.


















        TLED 451
            




View full course description for 
Developing Instructional Strategies for Teaching in the Middle/High School: English



                  Following a theory/research-into-practice philosophy, students explore, develop, and use instructional strategies,…
              











        TLED 451
            



Developing Instructional Strategies for Teaching in the Middle/High School: English





Following a theory/research-into-practice philosophy, students explore, develop, and use instructional strategies, materials, technologies, and activities to promote the development of attitudes, behaviors, and concepts in English, grades 6-12, informed by national instructional standards and the Virginia Standards of Learning; 35 hours of teaching practicum required. Prerequisites: TLED 301 or TLED 430W or SPED 313, passing scores on Praxis Core or Praxis I (if passing scores were achieved prior to January 1, 2014) or equivalent SAT scores as established by VA Board of Education, a criminal background check, acceptance into teacher education, no grade less than C- in content area and professional education core, minimum major and overall GPA of at least 2.75.
















Full Course Catalog














        Cost
            




Estimated rates for the 2023-24 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.






Active Duty Military Rate

Cost Per-Credit
$250





Virginia Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$393





Technology Delivered Courses Outside Virginia and/or the United States

Cost Per-Credit
$407





Non-Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$1,073







Ways to Save
Here are a few ways for you to save on the cost of attending ODU. For more information visit University Student Financial aid






Cost Estimator








            Financial Aid
      


The U.S. Department of Education offers financial aid to undergraduate and graduate students here. The State Council of Higher Education for Virginia (SCHEV) offers financial aid to undergraduate and graduate students here. The ODU Office of Financial Aid has a list of scholarships for current and prospective students here. 






            TEACH Grant
      


Through the College Cost Reduction and Access Act of 2007, Congress created the Teacher Education Assistance for College and Higher Education (TEACH) Grant Program that provides grants to students who intend to teach in a public or private elementary or secondary school that serves students from low-income families. Click here to learn more. 






            Hattie Strong Foundation Scholarship
      


If you're interested in applying for the Hattie Strong Foundation Scholarship, click here. For more information, contact the Office of Clinical Experiences, 2345 Education Building, 757-683-3348. 






            The Virginia Scholarship Loan Program (VSLP)
      


The primary purpose of the Virginia Teaching Scholarship Loan Program (VTSLP) is to provide financial support to students who are interested in pursuing a teaching career in one of the top five critical shortage teaching areas. The critical shortage teaching areas are determined annually through the Supply and Demand Survey for School Personnel, based on data received by school divisions in Virginia. The application is received from VDOE each April. For more information, contact The Office of Clinical Experience, 2345 Education Building, 757-683-3348 or click here. 






            Student Loan Cancellation/Deferment Options for Teachers
      


Under the Teacher Loan Forgiveness Program, if you teach full-time for five complete and consecutive academic years in a low-income school or educational service agency, and meet other qualifications, you may be eligible for forgiveness of up to $17,500 on your Direct Subsidized and Unsubsidized Loans and your Subsidized and Unsubsidized Federal Stafford Loans. Click here to learn more. 













        Next Steps
            














        Explore Community
            




















        Request Information
            




















        Virtual Tour
            




















        Visit Campus
            



















Contact


















Michelle Fowler-Amato


                  Associate Professor
                


757-683-4030


mfowlera@odu.edu



          5030 BATTEN ARTS & LETTERS          
        NORFOLK,            23529
  




















Contact



Undergraduate Admissions



 
          1004 Rollins Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3685
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3255
                
        fax
            
      








admissions@odu.edu

















Contact



International Admissions



 
          2101 Dragas Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3701
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3651
                
        fax
            
      








intladm@odu.edu
































        Related Programs
            



Literature (English, B.A.)


Creative Writing (English, B.A.)


Human Services (B.S.)


Technology Education (Career & Technical Education, B.S.)






































 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















