






















Educational Leadership (M.S.Ed.) | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



















Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Programs


                  Educational Leadership (M.S.Ed.)
              



Educational Leadership (M.S.Ed.)





Program HighlightsCareersCoursesRequirementsCostNext-StepsContact





Request Info




Apply









 

























About this Program

This Master of Science in Education prepares you for leadership roles in schools and school districts. The program leads to full Commonwealth of Virginia Licensure in Educational Administration and Supervision, Pre-K-12. Your course work will provide conceptual and theoretical knowledge, as well as practical field experience.




Program Highlights


Our programs are online and fully live, catering to full-time working professionals


The unique online learning environment enables our students and faculty to engage in a class setting that simulates a face-to-face classroom. In many ways, the courses parallel that of an in-person graduate class


Our courses, offered once a week, are held in the evening during the work week (not on Fridays, Saturdays, or Sundays).








 




Available In-Person and Online




            AT A GLANCE
          


        Darden College of Education & Professional Studies
      



        Department of STEM Education & Professional Studies
      


Degree Level

        Graduate
            


Degree Earned

        Master of Science in Education
            


Delivery Modes












Online



















            Careers
          


Check out these ideas from ODU Career Development Services and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.














Education Administrators, Postsecondary






            $107,670
      
Median Salary




Plan, direct, or coordinate research, instructional, student administration and services, and other educational activities at postsecondary institutions, including universities, colleges, and junior and community colleges.








Education Administrators, Elementary and Secondary School






            $97,440
      
Median Salary




Plan, direct, or coordinate the academic, administrative, or auxiliary activities of public or private elementary or secondary level schools.


































Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for Educational Leadership at ODU?
Students entering the Master of Science in Education program in Educational Leadership should meet the minimum university admission requirements Graduate Admission.


To gain admission, applicants must:

Meet all University admissions requirements.
Have an undergraduate grade point average of 2.80 overall and 3.00 in the major.
Hold a valid teaching license and currently serve in a PK-12 academic position.
Provide two letters of recommendation, including one from a school administrator.
Provide a one-page description of your anticipated career path and how this program can help you achieve your professional goals.
Develop a two-page essay on an instructional or school improvement issue and discuss the implications for school leaders.
Discuss  how your involvement in the cohort program can contribute to furthering the vision and mission of your school organization.

*This degree can lead to the addition of an endorsement in administration and supervision by the Virginia Department of Education for students who hold a valid Virginia teaching license and have three years of successful teaching experience.




More Program and Degree Requirements





















Featured Courses









        ELS 701
            




View full course description for 
Accountability and Organizational Improvement



                  This course is an in-depth study of effective data based decision-making practices for contemporary school leaders.…
              











        ELS 701
            



Accountability and Organizational Improvement





This course is an in-depth study of effective data based decision-making practices for contemporary school leaders. Formative and summative data based decision making practices will be explored, as well as how to work with large and small groups of staff members to analyze multiple measures of data and create school improvement designs for student and school success. An emphasis is placed on using data to make decisions at the division, school, and classroom levels. Prerequisite: ELS 600 or ELS 700.


















        ELS 727
            




View full course description for 
Learning Theories and Professional Development



                  This course exposes students to the essential elements of instructional leadership. Central to the skills and knowledge…
              











        ELS 727
            



Learning Theories and Professional Development





This course exposes students to the essential elements of instructional leadership. Central to the skills and knowledge necessary to be an effective instructional leader are a deep understanding of the learning sciences that inform us about the essence of effective teaching. Effective instructional leaders have a solid basis for assessing and promoting high quality instruction, giving them the tools to proactively build a school's organizational capacity of sustained growth in student achievement. Students will engage in reading, reflection, dialog, writing, problem solving and field-work, designed to build an understanding of how these topics are intrinsically tied to supporting teachers in their classrooms through facilitating better understandings of standards and accountability, effective lesson planning and curriculum development, assessment and grading, classroom management and discipline. Prerequisite: ELS 600 or ELS 700.


















        ELS 728
            




View full course description for 
Instructional Leadership and Supervision



                  This course develops student's skills, knowledge and dispositions in the area of instructional leadership. Students…
              











        ELS 728
            



Instructional Leadership and Supervision





This course develops student's skills, knowledge and dispositions in the area of instructional leadership. Students will explore how effective instructional leaders can use their integrated knowledge of quality instruction and the core principles of learning to set the mission and vision for the school, facilitate school improvement planning and professional development and finally how instructional supervision is used to integrate these activities and support the growth of individual teachers as well as building organizational capacity. Effective instructional leaders have a solid basis for assessing and promoting high quality instruction, giving them the tools to proactively build a school's organizational capacity for sustained growth in student achievement. Students will engage in reading, reflection, dialog, writing, problem solving and field-work, designed to help them build an integrated understanding of those leadership practices that help support teacher instructional growth and those that build organizational capacity for sustained improvement. Prerequisites: ELS 600 or ELS 700.
















Full Course Catalog














        Cost
            




Estimated rates for the 2023-24 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.






Virginia Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$599





Technology Delivered Courses Outside Virginia and/or the United States

Cost Per-Credit
$623





Non-Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$1,439







Ways to Save
Here are a few ways for you to save on the cost of attending ODU. For more information visit University Student Financial aid






Cost Estimator








            25% Discount for Virginia Public School Employees
      


Receive a 25% discount off of per-credit tuition. 

















        Next Steps
            














        Explore Community
            




















        Request Information
            




















        Virtual Tour
            




















        Visit Campus
            



















Contact


















Steve Myran


                  Professor
                


757-683-6694


smyran@odu.edu



          2300 EDUCATION BUILDING          
        NORFOLK,            23529
  




















Contact



Graduate Admissions



 
          1000 Rollins Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3685
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3255
                
        fax
            
      








gradadmit@odu.edu

















Contact



International Admissions



 
          2101 Dragas Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3701
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3651
                
        fax
            
      








intladm@odu.edu


























Additional Programs
Are there other programs at ODU I may be interested in?
With over 120 undergraduate programs, 130 graduate programs at the master's, education specialist and doctoral levels plus a wealth of certificate and professional development programs, Old Dominion University has the program for you. Visit our academic program listing page to see other programs ODU has to offer.






























 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















