






















Japanese (Minor) | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



















Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Programs


                  Japanese (Minor)
              



Japanese (Minor)





Program HighlightsCareersCoursesRequirementsTransferCostNext-StepsContact





Request Info




Apply









 

























About this Program

No matter what your major is, minoring in Japanese will open doors to new places and new possibilities. Our interactive, proficiency-oriented classes aim to develop students' language skills and socio-cultural awareness and competencies. Students have many opportunities to practice their language skills and connect with Japanese speakers through class activities and projects. We are committed to fostering competent global citizens who are critical and creative thinkers, effective communicators, and good collaborators.




Program Highlights


Interactive, proficiency-oriented classes


Opportunity to practice language skills through class projects


A focus on oral communication skills


Collaboration with native speakers


Students have access to the Language Learning Center as a resource










            AT A GLANCE
          


        College of Arts & Letters
      



        World Languages & Cultures
      


Degree Level

        Undergraduate
            


Degree Earned

        Minor
            


Delivery Modes












          On-Campus
      


















            Careers
          


Check out these ideas from ODU Career Development Services and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.














Interpreters and Translators






            $51,790
      
Median Salary




Interpret oral or sign language, or translate written text from one language into another.








Foreign Language and Literature Teachers, Postsecondary






            $75,950
      
Median Salary




Teach languages and literature courses in languages other than English. Includes teachers of American Sign Language (ASL). Includes both teachers primarily engaged in teaching and those who do a combination of teaching and research.








Business Teachers, Postsecondary






            $100,270
      
Median Salary




Teach courses in business administration and management, such as accounting, finance, human resources, labor and industrial relations, marketing, and operations research. Includes both teachers primarily engaged in teaching and those who do a combination of teaching and research.








Area, Ethnic, and Cultural Studies Teachers, Postsecondary






            $83,330
      
Median Salary




Teach courses pertaining to the culture and development of an area, an ethnic group, or any other group, such as Latin American studies, women's studies, or urban affairs. Includes both teachers primarily engaged in teaching and those who do a combination of teaching and research.

























        Alumni Careers
            








        Japan Exchange and Teaching (JET) Program
            













        AEON (English Conversation School in Japan)
            













        The Embassy of Japan
            



























Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for Japanese at ODU?
Students entering the Minor program in Japanese should meet the minimum university admission requirements Undergraduate Admission.


The Japanese minor consists of 12 credit hours of 300- and 400-level courses that combine the study of language and culture. 


For completion of a minor, a student must have a minimum overall cumulative grade point average of 2.00 in all courses specified as a requirement for the minor exclusive of lower-level courses and prerequisite courses and complete a minimum of six hours in upper-level courses in the minor requirement through courses offered by Old Dominion University.




More Program and Degree Requirements








            Transfer
          

At ODU, we understand that as a transfer student you have unique needs that require a wide array of campus resources. The Center for Advising Administration and Academic Partnerships aims to create a transfer inclusive culture that supports the successful...



Transfer Info
























Featured Courses









        JAPN 111F
            




View full course description for 
Beginning Japanese



                  This course introduces basic speaking, listening, reading, and writing skills, including the three forms of written…
              











        JAPN 111F
            



Beginning Japanese





This course introduces basic speaking, listening, reading, and writing skills, including the three forms of written Japanese: Hiragana, Katakana, and Kanji. Students will have the opportunity to interact with Japanese students on campus through the coursework. The course enhances speaking and listening skills and provides awareness of the Japanese style of communication. Analyzing Japanese sentence structures and grammar leads students to be aware of the different value systems of a high context culture.


















        JAPN 212
            




View full course description for 
Intermediate Japanese



                  The main focus of this course is to build communication skills, developing the basic language skills acquired in JAPN…
              











        JAPN 212
            



Intermediate Japanese





The main focus of this course is to build communication skills, developing the basic language skills acquired in JAPN 111F. Students may have an opportunity to exchange emails with a Japanese speaker in addition to direct or online conversation. Through this interaction, skills to negotiate meaning are gained. Use of authentic TV materials introduces pragmatic features that are unique to Japanese. Through systematic explicit instruction of the skills using pragmatic elements, skills for a Japanese style of communication are enhanced. Prerequisites: JAPN 111F.


















        JAPN 311
            




View full course description for 
Communicative Competence: Speaking and Listening



                  The primary objective of this course is to increase fluency in spoken Japanese and to make the students aware of…
              











        JAPN 311
            



Communicative Competence: Speaking and Listening





The primary objective of this course is to increase fluency in spoken Japanese and to make the students aware of cultural difference. The different modules are designed to enrich the students' knowledge of the language and the culture. An oral presentation in a small group gives students the opportunity to practice communication skills unique to the Japanese language, which is a high context culture. Advanced speaking and listening skills are developed through interviews with exchange students from Japan. Advanced written communication skills are gained through dynamic information exchange activities to learn about Japanese students on campus. Prerequisite: JAPN 212 with a grade of C or above or a satisfactory score on the placement test.




























        Cost
            




Estimated rates for the 2023-24 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.






Active Duty Military Rate

Cost Per-Credit
$250





Virginia Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$393





Technology Delivered Courses Outside Virginia and/or the United States

Cost Per-Credit
$407





Non-Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$1,073







Ways to Save
Here are a few ways for you to save on the cost of attending ODU. For more information visit University Student Financial aid






Cost Estimator











        Next Steps
            














        Explore Community
            




















        Request Information
            




















        Virtual Tour
            




















        Visit Campus
            



















Contact


















Minori Marken


                  Japanese Minor Coordinator
                


757-683-4567


mmarken@odu.edu



          4013 BATTEN ARTS & LETTERS          
        NORFOLK,            23529
  




















Contact



Undergraduate Admissions



 
          1004 Rollins Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3685
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3255
                
        fax
            
      








admissions@odu.edu

















Contact



International Admissions



 
          2101 Dragas Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3701
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3651
                
        fax
            
      








intladm@odu.edu
































        Related Programs
            



Asian Studies (B.A.)


International Studies (B.A.)






































 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















