






















Finance (B.S.B.A.) | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



















Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Programs


                  Finance (B.S.B.A.)
              



Finance (B.S.B.A.)





Program HighlightsCareersCoursesRequirementsTransferCostNext-Steps





Request Info




Apply









 

























About this Program

Do you enjoy numbers, analysis and "real world" applications? Old Dominion University offers a financial management degree with a choice of studies in finance. Finance majors have a choice of course offerings depending on their focus. The Finance track includes courses in financial management, financial decision-making, investments, portfolio management, banking and international financial management. Students also complete a group of core business courses offered in the College of Business and Public Administration and selected general education courses required by the University.




Program Highlights


In conjunction with the Old Dominion Career Advantage Program, numerous companies in the Tidewater area offer internships. Students are encouraged to earn academic credit for their participation in these programs as well as valuable experience in preparation for careers.


Finance graduates are qualified for corporate financial management positions, such as financial analysts, capital budgeting managers, credit managers, or a position in cash control or risk management; portfolio management positions, such as securities analysts, account executives or portfolio manager/analysts; bank management positions, such as lending officers, marketing officers or financial analysts; or as entrepreneurs operating their own businesses.








 




Available In-Person and Online




            AT A GLANCE
          


        Strome College of Business
      



        Department of Finance
      


Degree Level

        Undergraduate
            


Degree Earned

        Bachelor of Science in Business Administration
            


Delivery Modes












Online















          On-Campus
      


















            Careers
          


Check out these ideas from ODU Career Development Services and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.














Financial Analysts






            $99,430
      
Median Salary




Conduct quantitative analyses of information affecting investment programs of public or private institutions.








Personal Financial Advisors






            $124,140
      
Median Salary




Advise clients on financial plans using knowledge of tax and investment strategies, securities, insurance, pension plans, and real estate. Duties include assessing clients' assets, liabilities, cash flow, insurance coverage, tax status, and financial objectives.








Sales Agents, Financial Services






            $97,440
      
Median Salary




Sell financial services, such as loan, tax, and securities counseling to customers of financial institutions and business establishments.








Budget Analysts






            $78,680
      
Median Salary




Examine budget estimates for completeness, accuracy, and conformance with procedures and regulations. Analyze budgeting and accounting reports.


































Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for Finance at ODU?
Students entering the Bachelor of Science in Business Administration program in Finance should meet the minimum university admission requirements Undergraduate Admission.


Applicants for admission to any of the majors in the undergraduate degree program in business administration (Bachelor of Science in Business Administration - BSBA) should apply initially to the Office of Admissions of Old Dominion University. Students cannot be accepted into business administration without first being admitted to the University. Admission to the University does not guarantee admission to the Bachelor of Science in Business Administration (BSBA) program. Candidates for admission to the BSBA program should indicate on the application to the University their intention to enter the undergraduate business administration degree program. Admission to the BSBA degree program is a two-step process. 1.     Students must first successfully complete ODU admission requirements and be certified as having done so 2.     Complete admission requirements to the BSBA degree program




More Program and Degree Requirements








            Transfer
          

At ODU, we understand that as a transfer student you have unique needs that require a wide array of campus resources. The Center for Advising Administration and Academic Partnerships aims to create a transfer inclusive culture that supports the successful...



Transfer Info
























Featured Courses









        FIN 317
            




View full course description for 
Principles of Insurance and Risk Management



                  Recommended elective for non-business as well as business majors. The primary focus of this introductory course is on…
              











        FIN 317
            



Principles of Insurance and Risk Management





Recommended elective for non-business as well as business majors. The primary focus of this introductory course is on evaluating life, health, retirement, property, liability and personnel exposures to loss and analyzing the methods for managing these risks. Risk management and insurance techniques for dealing with potential losses to individuals and organizations will be emphasized. Classwork and a group project will also cover emerging risks, such as cyber risk, and technologies disrupting the industry. Students receiving a B or better in this course can have it count as the CPCU 500 course of the Chartered Property-Casualty Underwriter (CPCU) professional designation. Prerequisites: A declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office of the Strome College of Business.


















        FIN 319
            




View full course description for 
Principles of Real Estate



                  The fundamentals of real estate productivity and value are developed. Legal elements of real estate transactions,…
              











        FIN 319
            



Principles of Real Estate





The fundamentals of real estate productivity and value are developed. Legal elements of real estate transactions, physical aspects of real estate location and production, and economic factors pertinent to real estate. Prerequisite: A declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office.


















        FIN 410
            




View full course description for 
Life and Health Insurance



                  This course uses a broad-based financial planning approach in considering the nature and importance of individual life…
              











        FIN 410
            



Life and Health Insurance





This course uses a broad-based financial planning approach in considering the nature and importance of individual life and health risks and uses of individual life and health insurance in treating these risks. The implications of various legal, tax, and accounting considerations on businesses and individuals are discussed. The course also provides an overview of the operational aspects of life insurers, including organization, underwriting, actuarial, reassurance, marketing, investment, taxation, and accounting functions. Cases are employed. Prerequisites: FIN 317 and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office.
















Full Course Catalog














        Cost
            




Estimated rates for the 2023-24 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.






Active Duty Military Rate

Cost Per-Credit
$250





Virginia Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$393





Technology Delivered Courses Outside Virginia and/or the United States

Cost Per-Credit
$407





Non-Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$1,073







Ways to Save
Here are a few ways for you to save on the cost of attending ODU. For more information visit University Student Financial aid






Cost Estimator











        Next Steps
            














        Explore Community
            




















        Request Information
            




















        Virtual Tour
            




















        Visit Campus
            



















Contact
















Contact



Undergraduate Admissions



 
          1004 Rollins Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3685
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3255
                
        fax
            
      








admissions@odu.edu

















Contact



International Admissions



 
          2101 Dragas Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3701
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3651
                
        fax
            
      








intladm@odu.edu


























Additional Programs
Are there other programs at ODU I may be interested in?
With over 120 undergraduate programs, 130 graduate programs at the master's, education specialist and doctoral levels plus a wealth of certificate and professional development programs, Old Dominion University has the program for you. Visit our academic program listing page to see other programs ODU has to offer.






























 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















