






















Electrical and Computer Engineering (Engineering, B.S. & Ph.D.) | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



















Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Programs


                  Electrical and Computer Engineering (Engineering, B.S. & Ph.D.)
              



Electrical and Computer Engineering (Engineering, B.S. & Ph.D.)





Program HighlightsCareersCoursesRequirementsTransferCostNext-StepsContact





Request Info




Apply









 

























About this Program

A select number of exceptionally well-qualified students at Old Dominion University may be admitted to the Linked Bachelor’s/Ph.D. in Electrical & Computer Engineering program while in their junior year of undergraduate studies. This program encourages admitted students to work closely with individual faculty members during the remainder of their undergraduate program, and allows them to complete graduate coursework while they are still undergraduates. They must maintain a GPA of 3.50 or better throughout their bachelor’s studies. Students interested in the linked program option should talk with their undergraduate advisor and the graduate program director to see if the program would be beneficial for them.




Program Highlights


Engineering students with GPA >= 3.5 can apply for the ECE graduate program through a linked BS/PhD program


Students can take two graduate courses double counted for the BS degree and a graduate degree


No need for a formal application such as reference letters, essay, and GRE scores










            AT A GLANCE
          


        Batten College of Engineering & Technology
      



        Electrical & Computer Engineering
      


Degree Level

        Linked
            


Degree Earned

        U.G. & Doctoral
            


Delivery Modes












          On-Campus
      


















            Careers
          


Check out these ideas from ODU Career Development Services and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.














Computer Hardware Engineers






            $119,650
      
Median Salary




Research, design, develop, or test computer or computer-related equipment for commercial, industrial, military, or scientific use. May supervise the manufacturing and installation of computer or computer-related equipment and components.








Electronics Engineers, Except Computer






            $106,760
      
Median Salary




Research, design, develop, or test electronic components and systems for commercial, industrial, military, or scientific use employing knowledge of electronic theory and materials properties. Design electronic circuits and components for use in fields such as telecommunications, aerospace guidance and propulsion control, acoustics, or instruments and controls.








Electrical Engineers






            $99,580
      
Median Salary




Research, design, develop, test, or supervise the manufacturing and installation of electrical equipment, components, or systems for commercial, industrial, military, or scientific use.


































Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for Electrical and Computer Engineering at ODU?
Students entering the U.G. & Doctoral program in Electrical and Computer Engineering should meet the minimum university admission requirements Undergraduate Admission.


A select number of exceptionally well-qualified students at Old Dominion University may be admitted to the Linked Bachelor/Ph.D. program while they are pursuing their junior year in one of the undergraduate programs. Students interested in the linked program option should talk with their undergraduate advisor and the graduate program director to see if the linked program would be beneficial. 




More Program and Degree Requirements








            Transfer
          

At ODU, we understand that as a transfer student you have unique needs that require a wide array of campus resources. The Center for Advising Administration and Academic Partnerships aims to create a transfer inclusive culture that supports the successful...



Transfer Info
























Featured Courses









        ECE 601
            




View full course description for 
Linear Systems



                  A comprehensive introduction to the analysis of linear dynamical systems from an input-output and state space point of…
              











        ECE 601
            



Linear Systems





A comprehensive introduction to the analysis of linear dynamical systems from an input-output and state space point of view. Concepts from linear algebra, numerical linear algebra and linear operator theory are used throughout. Some elements of state feedback design and state estimation are also covered. Prerequisites: MATH 307.


















        ECE 872
            




View full course description for 
Fundamentals of Solar Cells



                  The course provides an overview of the fundamentals of solar cell technologies, design, and operation. The course is…
              











        ECE 872
            



Fundamentals of Solar Cells





The course provides an overview of the fundamentals of solar cell technologies, design, and operation. The course is designed for graduate students in Engineering and Science interested in the field of alternative energy. The course objectives are to make sure each student: understands the various forms of alternative energies, understands solar cell design, understands solar cell operation, and acquires knowledge of the various solar cells technologies. The topics to be covered include: Alternative energies; Worldwide status of Photovoltaics; Solar irradiance; Review of semiconductor properties; Generation, recombination; Basic equations of device physics; p-n junction diodes; Ideal solar cells; Efficiency limits; Efficiency losses and measurements; Module fabrication; c-Si technology; classical; Photovoltaic systems; Design of stand-alone system; Residential PV systems. Prerequisites: Graduate standing in Engineering and Science.


















        ECE 887
            




View full course description for 
Digital Communications



                  Fundamental concepts of digital communication and information transmission: information sources and source coding;…
              











        ECE 887
            



Digital Communications





Fundamental concepts of digital communication and information transmission: information sources and source coding; orthonormal expansions of signals, basis functions, and signal space concepts; digital modulation techniques including PAM, QAM, PSK and FSK; matched filters, demodulation and optimal detection of symbols and sequences; bandwidth; mathematical modeling of communication channels; channel capacity. Prerequisites: ECE 451/ECE 551 or equivalent or permission of the instructor.




























        Cost
            




Estimated rates for the 2023-24 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.






Active Duty Military Rate

Cost Per-Credit
$250





Virginia Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$393





Technology Delivered Courses Outside Virginia and/or the United States

Cost Per-Credit
$407





Non-Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$1,073







Ways to Save
Here are a few ways for you to save on the cost of attending ODU. For more information visit University Student Financial aid






Cost Estimator











        Next Steps
            














        Explore Community
            




















        Request Information
            




















        Virtual Tour
            




















        Visit Campus
            



















Contact


















Chung Hao Chen


                  Associate Professor
                


757-683-3475


cxchen@odu.edu



          231 KAUFMAN HALL          
        NORFOLK,            23529
  




















Oscar Gonzalez


                  Professor & Chair
                


757-683-4966


ogonzale@odu.edu



          2310 KAUFMAN HALL          
        NORFOLK,            23529
  




















Contact



Graduate Admissions



 
          1000 Rollins Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3685
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3255
                
        fax
            
      








gradadmit@odu.edu

















Contact



International Admissions



 
          2101 Dragas Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3701
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3651
                
        fax
            
      








intladm@odu.edu
































        Related Programs
            



Electrical & Computer Engineering (Engineering, M.S.)


Electrical & Computer Engineering (Engineering, Ph.D.)


Engineering Major (B.S.) and Biomedical Engineering (M.E./M.S.)


Biomedical Engineering (Engineering, Ph.D.)


Biomedical Engineering (Engineering, M.S./M.E.)


Biomedical Engineering (Graduate Certificate)






































 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















