






















Nursing, Pre-licensure (B.S.N.) | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



















Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Programs


                  Nursing, Pre-licensure (B.S.N.)
              



Nursing, Pre-licensure (B.S.N.)





Program HighlightsCareersCoursesRequirementsTransferCostNext-StepsContact





Request Info




Apply









 

























About this Program

Nursing is a rapidly changing, highly rewarding profession. Today's nurse must have a strong academic background, balanced with deep, nurturing values to deliver quality healthcare and shape the future of the profession. Today's nurse must understand the importance of developing partnerships within the community to provide health care to its constituents. Today's nurse must understand individuals' cultural and genetic differences. Today's nurse must also understand the interdisciplinary nature of the modern health care team and learn to work effectively within the team environment. Old Dominion University's Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) is the program for today's nurse. The Prelicensure Program is ideal for students from a variety of educational backgrounds: high school graduates, those with associate's degrees, bachelor's degrees in fields other than nursing, and military and civilians who are making career changes. During the challenging five semester academic program in the major, students participate in classes, laboratory experiences and clinical experiences under the guidance of highly competent qualified faculty.




Program Highlights


The five-semester program is designed to get graduates into the workforce and enrolled in graduate nursing programs more quickly.


Small clinical sections taught by supportive, experienced and engaged faculty allows for individualized students assistance.


Standardized patient experiences and our state of the art simulation center allow for realistic, hands on practice in a safe learning environment


In our Telehealth Center, students learn the use of technology to enhance care and improve patient outcomes by connecting health-care providers and patients at a distance


100% employment rate for students seeking jobs at graduation


Unique community health clinical experiences with organizations such as the Food Bank of Southeastern Virginia, Norfolk Drug Court, Operation Smile, and Senior Services of Southeastern Virginia


Active National Student Nurses’ Association Chapter


Study abroad opportunities


Clinical placements in all area hospitals










            AT A GLANCE
          


        School of Nursing
      


Degree Level

        Undergraduate
            


Degree Earned

        Bachelor of Science in Nursing
            


Delivery Modes












          On-Campus
      


















            Careers
          


Check out these ideas from ODU Career Development Services and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.














Health Educators






            $59,010
      
Median Salary




Provide and manage health education programs that help individuals, families, and their communities maximize and maintain healthy lifestyles. Collect and analyze data to identify community needs prior to planning, implementing, monitoring, and evaluating programs designed to encourage healthy lifestyles, policies, and environments. May serve as a resource to assist individuals, other healthcare workers, or the community, and may administer fiscal resources for health education programs.








Registered Nurses






            $73,550
      
Median Salary




Assess patient health problems and needs, develop and implement nursing care plans, and maintain medical records. Administer nursing care to ill, injured, convalescent, or disabled patients. May advise patients on health maintenance and disease prevention or provide case management. Licensing or registration required.








Acute Care Nurses






            $73,550
      
Median Salary




Provide advanced nursing care for patients with acute conditions such as heart attacks, respiratory distress syndrome, or shock. May care for pre- and post-operative patients or perform advanced, invasive diagnostic or therapeutic procedures.








Critical Care Nurses






            $73,550
      
Median Salary




Provide advanced nursing care for patients in critical or coronary care units.

























        Alumni Careers
            








        Sentara
            













        Children's Hospital of the King's Daughters
            













        Armed Forces
            













        The Johns Hopkins Hospital
            













        Massachusetts General Hospital
            



























Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for Nursing, Pre-licensure at ODU?
Students entering the Bachelor of Science in Nursing program in Nursing, Pre-licensure should meet the minimum university admission requirements Undergraduate Admission.


Admission to the School of Nursing is a competitive process. Applicants for admission to the baccalaureate program in Nursing should apply initially to the Office of Admissions of Old Dominion University to seek admission to the University. Admission to the University does not constitute admission to the School of Nursing. Applicants for admission to the undergraduate Nursing program must complete prerequisite courses with a grade of "C" or better prior to being admitted to the School of Nursing. In some cases, the admissions committee of the School of Nursing may require additional course work. Transfer students may complete the prerequisite courses at another college or university but are responsible for having transfer credit evaluation completed by Transfer Evaluation Services to determine that transfer courses are equivalent and acceptable to University requirements. Applicants must complete a School of Nursing Supplemental Application to be considered for admission to the undergraduate Nursing program. The School of Nursing Supplemental Application may be obtained directly from the School of Nursing Academic Advising Office or the School of Nursing website.




Complete prerequisite courses with a grade of "C" or better prior to being admitted to the School of Nursing. In some cases, the admissions committee of the School of Nursing may require additional course work. Transfer students may complete the prerequisite courses at another college or university but are responsible for having transfer credit evaluation completed by Transfer Evaluation Services to determine that transfer courses are equivalent and acceptable to University requirements.


Complete a School of Nursing Supplemental Application 


Minimum GPA for admission to prelicensure program is 3.00. Please note that for the past several years, students admitted to the program have had at least a 3.6 GPA.




More Program and Degree Requirements








            Transfer
          

At ODU, we understand that as a transfer student you have unique needs that require a wide array of campus resources. The Center for Advising Administration and Academic Partnerships aims to create a transfer inclusive culture that supports the successful...



Transfer Info
























Featured Courses









        NURS 373
            




View full course description for 
Principles of Practice: Pharmacology for Nursing Practice I



                  This course is designed to involve the student in the application of the nursing process to clinical situations…
              











        NURS 373
            



Principles of Practice: Pharmacology for Nursing Practice I





This course is designed to involve the student in the application of the nursing process to clinical situations involving drug therapy. Prerequisites: NURS 304, NURS 316 and NURS 317. Pre- or corequisites: NURS 322 and NURS 323.


















        NURS 440
            




View full course description for 
Health Continuum Recovery



                  This course introduces the theoretical and applied concepts necessary to assist individuals with potential or actual…
              











        NURS 440
            



Health Continuum Recovery





This course introduces the theoretical and applied concepts necessary to assist individuals with potential or actual disabilities prevent further functional dependence or restore maximum levels of function. Prerequisites: NURS 322, NURS 323, and NURS 373. Pre- or corequisite: NURS 441.


















        NURS 463
            




View full course description for 
Nursing in the Health Care System: Community Interactions I



                  This clinical course provides opportunity for application of concepts and themes of families and communities through…
              











        NURS 463
            



Nursing in the Health Care System: Community Interactions I





This clinical course provides opportunity for application of concepts and themes of families and communities through experience and interactions with health care coalition groups. Prerequisites: NURS 322 and NURS 323. Pre- or corequisite: NURS 462.
















Full Course Catalog














        Cost
            




Estimated rates for the 2023-24 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.






Active Duty Military Rate

Cost Per-Credit
$250





Virginia Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$393





Technology Delivered Courses Outside Virginia and/or the United States

Cost Per-Credit
$407





Non-Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$1,073







Ways to Save
Here are a few ways for you to save on the cost of attending ODU. For more information visit University Student Financial aid






Cost Estimator








            Scholarships & Grants
      


Click here for an extensive list of scholarships and grants offered to ODU Nursing students. 













        Next Steps
            














        Explore Community
            




















        Request Information
            




















        Virtual Tour
            




















        Visit Campus
            



















Contact


















Suzanne Van Orden


                  Undergraduate BSN Program Co-Director
                


757-683-5245


svanorde@odu.edu



          169A VIRGINIA BEACH CENTER 1881 UNIVERSITY DRIVE          
        VIRGINIA BEACH,            23453
  




















Lynn Wiles PhD


                  Undergraduate BSN Program Co-Director
                


757-683-5259


lwiles@odu.edu



          205 VIRGINIA BEACH CENTER 1881 UNIVERSITY DRIVE          
        VIRGINIA BEACH,            23453
  




















Contact



Undergraduate Admissions



 
          1004 Rollins Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3685
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3255
                
        fax
            
      








admissions@odu.edu

















Contact



International Admissions



 
          2101 Dragas Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3701
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3651
                
        fax
            
      








intladm@odu.edu
































        Related Programs
            



Nursing, Post-licensure (B.S.N.)


Nursing (M.S.N.)






































 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















