






















Special Education (M.S.Ed.) | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



















Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Programs


                  Special Education (M.S.Ed.)
              



Special Education (M.S.Ed.)





Program HighlightsCareersCoursesRequirementsCostNext-StepsContact





Request Info




Apply









 

























About this Program

This program prepares teachers and agency personnel to design and implement curricula for children, adolescents, and adults who require special educational services. Graduates serve as key members of child study teams and are prepared to address educational, emotional, and physical disabilities. In this program, a student can choose an endorsement in special education: general curriculum K-12 (mild/moderate disabilities); early childhood special education (birth–5); and/or special education: adapted curriculum K-12 (severe/multiple disabilities).




Program Highlights


The Special Education with Endorsement (Education, M.S.Ed.) program can be completed in approximately two years.


Coursework is supplemented by field experiences in a variety of settings.


Courses are offered in on campus, online (asynchronous), and web conferencing (synchronous) modalities.


Students learn evidence-based practices for teaching individuals with disabilities.








 




Available In-Person and Online




            AT A GLANCE
          


        Darden College of Education & Professional Studies
      



         Human Movement Studies & Special Education
      


Degree Level

        Graduate
            


Degree Earned

        Master of Science in Education
            


Delivery Modes












Online















          On-Campus
      


















            Careers
          


Check out these ideas from ODU Career Development Services and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.































Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for Special Education at ODU?
Students entering the Master of Science in Education program in Special Education should meet the minimum university admission requirements Graduate Admission.


A baccalaureate degree from a regionally accredited university.


Cumulative GPA of 2.80 for all college credit courses taken in the baccalaureate degree program


A Graduate Record Examination (GRE) score of at least 291 (Verbal and Quantitative sections with a minimum Verbal score of 150 or better) and a 4.5 on the Analytical Writing section OR a Miller Analogies Test (MAT) minimum score of 403


A 400-500 word goal statement indicating why the student wishes to enroll in the special education program.




More Program and Degree Requirements





















Featured Courses









        SPED 500
            




View full course description for 
Foundations of Special Education: Legal Aspects and Characteristics



                  The course provides an introduction and overview of the field of special education from the perspective that it is a…
              











        SPED 500
            



Foundations of Special Education: Legal Aspects and Characteristics





The course provides an introduction and overview of the field of special education from the perspective that it is a subsection of general education and that the field is in transition by virtue of philosophical, legislative, and programmatic changes. Legal aspects, regulatory requirements, and critical analyses of research are addressed. The course includes a broad overview of the characteristics, identification, instructional needs, and accommodation necessary for creating appropriate educational and vocational environments for students with disabilities. Prerequisites: junior standing.


















        SPED 502
            




View full course description for 
Instructional Design I: Learner Characteristics and Assessment



                  The intent of this course is to provide pre-service and in-service teachers with: (a) knowledge of the characteristics…
              











        SPED 502
            



Instructional Design I: Learner Characteristics and Assessment





The intent of this course is to provide pre-service and in-service teachers with: (a) knowledge of the characteristics of K-12 students with learning differences who are accessing either the general curriculum or the adapted curriculum, and (b) the ability to develop knowledge and skill in the selection, administration, scoring and interpretation of standardized/norm-referenced and criterion-referenced assessments for exceptional learners. Administering formal and informal assessment tools for the development of an IEP are emphasized. The use of assessment data to improve evidence-based instruction and student performance is discussed. Prerequisites: a grade of C- or higher in SPED 400 or a grade of B- or higher in SPED 500.


















        SPED 511
            




View full course description for 
Classroom and Behavioral Management Techniques for Students with Diverse Needs



                  This course addresses classroom management techniques and individual interventions based upon behavioral, cognitive,…
              











        SPED 511
            



Classroom and Behavioral Management Techniques for Students with Diverse Needs





This course addresses classroom management techniques and individual interventions based upon behavioral, cognitive, affective, social, and ecological theory and practice. The course focuses on the field of applied behavior analysis, including best practices in the areas of data collection, program selection, program implementation, and data analysis. Positive behavior management, supports, and functional behavioral assessment for students with diverse learning needs will be emphasized. Pre- or corequisite: a grade of C- of higher in SPED 400 or a grade of B- or higher in SPED 500.
















Full Course Catalog














        Cost
            




Estimated rates for the 2023-24 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.






Virginia Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$599





Technology Delivered Courses Outside Virginia and/or the United States

Cost Per-Credit
$623





Non-Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$1,439







Ways to Save
Here are a few ways for you to save on the cost of attending ODU. For more information visit University Student Financial aid






Cost Estimator








            Paraprofessional Preparation for Extraordinary Teaching (PPET) Program
      


The Darden College of Education & Professional Studies of Old Dominion University is seeking applicants for endorsement in special education: general curriculum. The PPET program is one of the Commonwealth Special Education Endorsement Programs. 






            Commonwealth Special Education Endorsement Program (CSEEP)
      


The Commonwealth Special Education Endorsement (CSEEP) Program is a technology-rich, award-winning approach to teacher preparation in special education. 






            Teacher Education Assistance for College and Higher Education (TEACH) Grant Program
      


Through the College Cost Reduction and Access Act of 2007, Congress created the Teacher Education Assistance for College and Higher Education (TEACH) Grant Program that provides grants to students who intend to teach in a public or private elementary or secondary school that serves students from low-income families. 













        Next Steps
            














        Explore Community
            




















        Request Information
            




















        Virtual Tour
            




















        Visit Campus
            



















Contact


















Jonna Bobzien


                  Graduate Program Director
                


757-683-3307


jbobzien@odu.edu



          241 LIONS CHILD STUDY CTR          
        NORFOLK,            23529
  




















Contact



Graduate Admissions



 
          1000 Rollins Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3685
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3255
                
        fax
            
      








gradadmit@odu.edu

















Contact



International Admissions



 
          2101 Dragas Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3701
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3651
                
        fax
            
      








intladm@odu.edu
































        Related Programs
            



Speech-Language Pathology (M.S.)


Special Education (Education, Ph.D.)


Autism (Graduate Certificate)


Applied Behavior Analysis (Graduate Certificate)






































 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















