






















Nurse Anesthesia (D.N.P.) | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



















Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Programs


                  Nurse Anesthesia (D.N.P.)
              



Nurse Anesthesia (D.N.P.)





Program HighlightsCareersCoursesRequirementsCostNext-StepsContact





Request Info




Apply









 

























About this Program

The Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetist (CRNA) credential came into existence in 1956. As one of four advanced practice registered nurse roles recognized in the U.S., CRNAs practice with a high degree of autonomy and professional respect. They carry a heavy load of responsibility and are compensated accordingly. The Old Dominion University DNP program with specialization in nurse anesthesia is a 100 credit, 36 month, full-time program that begins in May each year. Our program is a hybrid of on-campus and on-line classes. The curriculum is an assimilation of nurse anesthesia specialty and DNP courses. Each student is required to complete a scholarly project that addresses patient care, quality improvement, process improvement, or practice improvement.




Program Highlights


90% National Certification Exam average pass rate over past six years


100% Graduate Employment Rate in 2022


13% Program Attrition Rate average over past six years


Students have clinical experiences in hospitals throughout Hampton Roads, as well as in secondary sites within and outside the region


Our long-standing partnerships with local primary clinical sites assure that students work with highly experienced anesthesiologists and nurse anesthetists to develop their skills and competence in the professional role


Some of our primary clinical sites include: Sentara Norfolk General Hospital, Sentara Leigh Hospital, Sentara Virginia Beach General Hospital, Sentara Careplex Hospital, Sentara Princess Anne Hospital


Accredited by The Council on Accreditation  of Nurse Anesthesia Educational Programs (COA)










            AT A GLANCE
          


        School of Nursing
      


Degree Level

        Graduate
            


Degree Earned

        Doctor of Nursing Practice
            


Delivery Modes












          On-Campus
      


















            Careers
          


Check out these ideas from ODU Career Development Services and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.














Nursing Instructors and Teachers, Postsecondary






            $77,360
      
Median Salary




Demonstrate and teach patient care in classroom and clinical units to nursing students. Includes both teachers primarily engaged in teaching and those who do a combination of teaching and research.








Nurse Anesthetists






            $189,190
      
Median Salary




Administer anesthesia, monitor patient's vital signs, and oversee patient recovery from anesthesia. May assist anesthesiologists, surgeons, other physicians, or dentists. Must be registered nurses who have specialized graduate education.

























        Alumni Careers
            








        Sentara
            













        Chesapeake Medical Center
            













        Bon Secours
            













        Riverside Health System
            



























Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for Nurse Anesthesia at ODU?
Students entering the Doctor of Nursing Practice program in Nurse Anesthesia should meet the minimum university admission requirements Graduate Admission.


The application deadline is September 1st.




Baccalaureate Degree in a related science. Nursing Preferred.


Current Licensure: Current Multistate Licensure as a Registered Professional Nurse. All prospective students must have an unencumbered current licensure as a registered professional nurse or APRN from the United States or its territories.


GPA Requirements: Cumulative undergraduate grade point average of 3.0 or above on a 4.0 scale and grades in each required science and nursing course in the undergraduate nursing program of 3.0 or higher.


Undergraduate courses: You must have completed the following courses with a “B” or better:

Anatomy
Physiology
Pathophysiology
Pharmacology
Organic chemistry (preferred) OR biochemistry courses
Chemistry and Statistics, successfully completed within 10 years of applying to the program.



Personal Interview: A personal interview with the interview committee (by invitation).


Experience: A minimum of one year (2080 hours) of full-time nursing experience in a critical care unit within the 2 years prior to application. Critical care experience must be obtained in a critical care area within the United States, its territories, or a US military hospital outside of the United States.  Clinical experience must be direct patient care. Emergency room, recovery room, operating room, labor and delivery, and step-down units do not satisfy the critical care experience.


Certifications:

Current American Heart Association Certification in BLS, ACLS, and PALS.
CCRN certification is mandatory.



References: Three professional references. One must be from immediate supervisor with contact number included.


English Competency: Score from the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) for a student whose native language is not English; a minimum score of 100 (iBT test) is required.




More Program and Degree Requirements





















Featured Courses









        NURA 750
            




View full course description for 
Applied Principles of Anesthesia Practice I



                  This course integrates scientific concepts with basic principles of anesthesia practice and prepares the student for…
              











        NURA 750
            



Applied Principles of Anesthesia Practice I





This course integrates scientific concepts with basic principles of anesthesia practice and prepares the student for their new role in the safe and effective delivery of anesthesia. Emphasis is on vital anesthesia monitoring and delivery systems. Airway management and general anesthesia techniques will also be discussed. Simulation is incorporated into the learning process to reinforce principles introduced in class. Prerequisite: NURA 745.


















        NURS 761
            




View full course description for 
Pharmacology for Advanced Practice Nursing



                  This course will develop and enhance the advanced practice nurse's knowledge of pharmacological management of the…
              











        NURS 761
            



Pharmacology for Advanced Practice Nursing





This course will develop and enhance the advanced practice nurse's knowledge of pharmacological management of the patient. Expanded knowledge and application of advanced pharmacologic concepts across the lifespan will build upon previous elemental concepts in pharmacology and pharmacotherapeutics obtained in undergraduate education and clinical practice. Prerequisites: Admission to the MSN program is required.


















        NURS 809
            




View full course description for 
Advocacy for Healthcare Public Policy for Advanced Practice



                  This course will prepare the DNP to assume a leadership role in developing, implementing, and advocating for health…
              











        NURS 809
            



Advocacy for Healthcare Public Policy for Advanced Practice





This course will prepare the DNP to assume a leadership role in developing, implementing, and advocating for health care policy that results in quality, accessible, comprehensive health care for vulnerable populations.
















Full Course Catalog














        Cost
            




Estimated rates for the 2023-24 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.






Virginia Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$599





Technology Delivered Courses Outside Virginia and/or the United States

Cost Per-Credit
$623





Non-Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$1,439







Ways to Save
Here are a few ways for you to save on the cost of attending ODU. For more information visit University Student Financial aid






Cost Estimator








            HRSA Traineeship Funds
      


Each year the program applies for traineeship funds from HRSA to support student education. Funding from scholarships is limited, and restricted to those students who meet need requirements.













        Next Steps
            














        Explore Community
            




















        Request Information
            




















        Virtual Tour
            




















        Visit Campus
            



















Contact


















Adrienne Hartgerink


                  Program Director
                


757-368-4172


ahartger@odu.edu



          203 VIRGINIA BEACH CENTER 1881 UNIVERSITY DRIVE          
        VIRGINIA BEACH,            23453
  




















Contact



Graduate Admissions



 
          1000 Rollins Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3685
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3255
                
        fax
            
      








gradadmit@odu.edu

















Contact



International Admissions



 
          2101 Dragas Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3701
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3651
                
        fax
            
      








intladm@odu.edu


























Additional Programs
Are there other programs at ODU I may be interested in?
With over 120 undergraduate programs, 130 graduate programs at the master's, education specialist and doctoral levels plus a wealth of certificate and professional development programs, Old Dominion University has the program for you. Visit our academic program listing page to see other programs ODU has to offer.






























 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















