






















Civil Engineering Technology (B.S.E.T.) | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



















Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Programs


                  Civil Engineering Technology (B.S.E.T.)
              



Civil Engineering Technology (B.S.E.T.)





Program HighlightsCareersCoursesRequirementsTransferCostNext-StepsContact





Request Info




Apply









 

























About this Program

The B.S. in Civil Engineering Technology (CET) is a high-quality degree program that meets national standards of excellence. The program focuses on the application and practice of civil engineering principles, and offers courses in the areas of Construction Management, Structural Design, and Site Development. Graduates will have the technical and managerial skills necessary to enter careers in planning, design, construction, operation, and maintenance of infrastructure systems. The math and physics throughout the curriculum is consistent with that required in practice. The program focuses on development of communication and entrepreneurial skills.




Program Highlights


CET Graduates can sit for the National Council of Examiners for Engineering and Surveying (NCEES) license examinations


Articulation agreements exist for several in-state and out-of-state community colleges engaged in engineering technology programs or similar


CET program is accredited by the Engineering Technology Accreditation Commission (ETAC) of ABET, https://www.abet.org, under the General Criteria and the Civil Engineering Technology Program Criteria


Work experience can be used to gain college credit via Prior Learning Assessment and/or Internship/Co-Ops


Tutoring services are available for some lower level courses at the Student Success Center. This service is available for both on-campus and online students.


Attractive tuition costs for out-of-state distance learning and military students








 




Available In-Person and Online




            AT A GLANCE
          


        Batten College of Engineering & Technology
      



        Engineering Technology
      


Degree Level

        Undergraduate
            


Degree Earned

        Bachelor of Science in Engineering Technology
            


Delivery Modes












Online















          On-Campus
      


















            Careers
          


Check out these ideas from ODU Career Development Services and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.














Construction Managers






            $101,000
      
Median Salary




Plan, direct, or coordinate, usually through subordinate supervisory personnel, activities concerned with the construction and maintenance of structures, facilities, and systems. Participate in the conceptual development of a construction project and oversee its organization, scheduling, budgeting, and implementation. Includes managers in specialized construction fields, such as carpentry or plumbing.








Cost Estimators






            $68,420
      
Median Salary




Prepare cost estimates for product manufacturing, construction projects, or services to aid management in bidding on or determining price of product or service. May specialize according to particular service performed or type of product manufactured.








Materials Engineers






            $98,610
      
Median Salary




Evaluate materials and develop machinery and processes to manufacture materials for use in products that must meet specialized design and performance specifications. Develop new uses for known materials. Includes those engineers working with composite materials or specializing in one type of material, such as graphite, metal and metal alloys, ceramics and glass, plastics and polymers, and naturally occurring materials. Includes metallurgists and metallurgical engineers, ceramic engineers, and welding engineers.

























        Alumni Careers
            








        Whiting Turner
            













        Clancy Theys
            













        Speight, Marshalls and Francis
            













        Century Concrete
            













        S.B. Ballard
            













        Virginia Department of Transportation (VDOT)
            



























Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for Civil Engineering Technology at ODU?
Students entering the Bachelor of Science in Engineering Technology program in Civil Engineering Technology should meet the minimum university admission requirements Undergraduate Admission.


Freshman students must have graduated from high school. Transfer students must have 2.0 GPA or better. Transfer students following articulation agreements must abide by the guidelines stipulated on the agreements. Students with foreign degrees interested in obtaining ABET accredited education are encouraged to apply.




More Program and Degree Requirements








            Transfer
          

At ODU, we understand that as a transfer student you have unique needs that require a wide array of campus resources. The Center for Advising Administration and Academic Partnerships aims to create a transfer inclusive culture that supports the successful...



Transfer Info
























Featured Courses









        CET 355
            




View full course description for 
Sustainable Building Practices



                  The course will examine industry trends in sustainable building practices. It explores the green building strategies…
              











        CET 355
            



Sustainable Building Practices





The course will examine industry trends in sustainable building practices. It explores the green building strategies used in the design and construction of sustainable buildings. The role of site selection, water efficiency, energy, materials and resources, and indoor environmental quality will be explored. Prerequisites: Junior standing.


















        CET 365
            




View full course description for 
Building Information Modeling (BIM)



                  This course is an introduction to building information modeling (BIM) and its implementation in building design and…
              











        CET 365
            



Building Information Modeling (BIM)





This course is an introduction to building information modeling (BIM) and its implementation in building design and construction. Topics include the fundamentals of information modeling; business benefits of BIM; impacts of BIM on design and construction processes; integrated design process and project delivery; popular software applications and basic modeling techniques; and popular areas and best practices of BIM implementation. Prerequisite: CET 260.


















        CET 465
            




View full course description for 
Construction Project Management



                  An introduction to the procedures and methods that are used by a contractor during the construction phase of a project.…
              











        CET 465
            



Construction Project Management





An introduction to the procedures and methods that are used by a contractor during the construction phase of a project. Special emphasis on planning, managing and documenting project activities. Topics include job site layout and control, subcontracting and purchasing and changes and claims/progress payments. Prerequisite: CET 210.
















Full Course Catalog














        Cost
            




Estimated rates for the 2023-24 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.






Active Duty Military Rate

Cost Per-Credit
$250





Virginia Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$393





Technology Delivered Courses Outside Virginia and/or the United States

Cost Per-Credit
$407





Non-Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$1,073







Ways to Save
Here are a few ways for you to save on the cost of attending ODU. For more information visit University Student Financial aid






Cost Estimator











        Next Steps
            














        Explore Community
            




















        Request Information
            




















        Virtual Tour
            




















        Visit Campus
            



















Contact


















Michael Seek


                  Associate Professor
                


757-683-3619


mseek@odu.edu



          102 KAUFMAN HALL          
        NORFOLK,            23529
  




















Contact



Undergraduate Admissions



 
          1004 Rollins Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3685
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3255
                
        fax
            
      








admissions@odu.edu

















Contact



International Admissions



 
          2101 Dragas Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3701
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3651
                
        fax
            
      








intladm@odu.edu
































        Related Programs
            



Electrical Engineering Technology (B.S.E.T.)


Mechanical Engineering Technology (B.S.E.T.)


Manufacturing Engineering Technology (B.S.E.T.)






































 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















