






















Humanities (M.A.) | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



















Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Programs


                  Humanities (M.A.)
              



Humanities (M.A.)





Program HighlightsCareersCoursesRequirementsCostNext-StepsContact





Request Info




Apply









 

























About this Program

The interdisciplinary Masters' degree (MA) program in the Humanities allows students to pursue individualized curricula that incorporate classes from across ODU's seven Colleges and 65 standalone graduate programs. We attract students with unique research projects and/or career objectives that cannot be fully realized within a single discipline and who will benefit from a cross-disciplinary approach. Our students become experts in their field by triangulating courses across different disciplines. Students work closely with the program director to design a coherent program of study that encourages critical thinking, innovation, engaged scholarship and experiential learning.




Program Highlights


We are a collaborative research and social innovation incubator in the College of Arts and Letters at Old Dominion University. We help foster connections among activists, artists, scholars, engaged global citizens, and local community stakeholders who are searching for ways to reshape people's lives. We have a particular commitment to social justice, social entrepreneurship, community engagement, design thinking, cultural studies, and the digital and medical humanities










            AT A GLANCE
          


        College of Arts & Letters
      



        Humanities
      


Degree Level

        Graduate
            


Degree Earned

        Master of Arts
            


Delivery Modes












          On-Campus
      


















            Careers
          


Check out these ideas from ODU Career Development Services and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.














Social and Community Service Managers






            $70,530
      
Median Salary




Plan, direct, or coordinate the activities of a social service program or community outreach organization. Oversee the program or organization's budget and policies regarding participant involvement, program requirements, and benefits. Work may involve directing social workers, counselors, or probation officers.








Art, Drama, and Music Teachers, Postsecondary






            $78,720
      
Median Salary




Teach courses in drama, music, and the arts including fine and applied art, such as painting and sculpture, or design and crafts. Includes both teachers primarily engaged in teaching and those who do a combination of teaching and research.








Curators






            $58,830
      
Median Salary




Administer collections, such as artwork, collectibles, historic items, or scientific specimens of museums or other institutions. May conduct instructional, research, or public service activities of institution.








Fundraisers






            $59,930
      
Median Salary




Organize activities to raise funds or otherwise solicit and gather monetary donations or other gifts for an organization. May design and produce promotional materials. May also raise awareness of the organization's work, goals, and financial needs.


































Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for Humanities at ODU?
Students entering the Master of Arts program in Humanities should meet the minimum university admission requirements Graduate Admission.


Submit official transcripts from all institutions of higher education from which they earned their undergraduate degree


Submit a writing sample reflecting their ability to do research and write intellectually


Submit two recommendation letters


Submit a statement of purpose that proposes an interdisciplinary program of study, discusses personal, intellectual and professional goals and explain the relationship of those goals to the intended program of study




More Program and Degree Requirements





For Admission to the Humanities Program





        GPA
            



Applicants must possess an undergraduate GPA of 3.25 or better 

























Featured Courses









        HUM 601
            




View full course description for 
Introduction to the Humanities



                  This class introduces students to the study of the humanities with a focus on the enduring questions and ideas of human…
              











        HUM 601
            



Introduction to the Humanities





This class introduces students to the study of the humanities with a focus on the enduring questions and ideas of human history. These include questions of culture, reality, society, power, truth, communication, and mediation. Students address these questions and ideas by engaging with some of the great works of social theory from the twentieth century.


















        HUM 602
            




View full course description for 
Theory and Methods in Humanities



                  This class instructs students in various theoretical and methodological approaches for conducting research within the…
              











        HUM 602
            



Theory and Methods in Humanities





This class instructs students in various theoretical and methodological approaches for conducting research within the humanistic disciplines. Students will become familiar with literary theory, critical/cultural studies, historical methods, qualitative social scientific approaches, and visual studies, as well as the conduct of research across disciplinary boundaries.


















        HUM 603
            




View full course description for 
Preparing Humanities Teachers & Scholars Pro-seminar



                  The purposes of the pro-seminar are A)to help prepare Humanities graduate students to teach discipline-specific…
              











        HUM 603
            



Preparing Humanities Teachers & Scholars Pro-seminar





The purposes of the pro-seminar are A)to help prepare Humanities graduate students to teach discipline-specific college-level introductory courses from an interdisciplinary perspective, and B)to provide Humanities students with opportunities to engage scholars who are producing new work across a range of disciplines, in turn learning to present their own research in public.
















Full Course Catalog














        Cost
            




Estimated rates for the 2023-24 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.






Virginia Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$599





Technology Delivered Courses Outside Virginia and/or the United States

Cost Per-Credit
$623





Non-Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$1,439







Ways to Save
Here are a few ways for you to save on the cost of attending ODU. For more information visit University Student Financial aid






Cost Estimator








            Scholarship
      


The Susan Rowell Humanities Scholarship - Awarded to one student a year for $1,455 per year 






            Graduate Assistantships
      


Stipends and, in some cases, tuition waivers, are offered to students who apply, when available. Discuss with the Director. 













        Next Steps
            














        Explore Community
            




















        Request Information
            




















        Virtual Tour
            




















        Visit Campus
            



















Contact


















Anne Muraoka


                  Director of the Institute for the Humanities
                


757-683-4678


amuraoka@odu.edu



          1000E BARRY ARTS BUILDING 4600 MONARCH WAY          
        NORFOLK,            23529
  




















Terri Hughes


                  Office Manager
                


757-683-3823


tjhughes@odu.edu



          3041 BATTEN ARTS & LETTERS BLDG          
        NORFOLK,            23529
  




















Contact



Graduate Admissions



 
          1000 Rollins Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3685
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3255
                
        fax
            
      








gradadmit@odu.edu

















Contact



International Admissions



 
          2101 Dragas Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3701
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3651
                
        fax
            
      








intladm@odu.edu


























Additional Programs
Are there other programs at ODU I may be interested in?
With over 120 undergraduate programs, 130 graduate programs at the master's, education specialist and doctoral levels plus a wealth of certificate and professional development programs, Old Dominion University has the program for you. Visit our academic program listing page to see other programs ODU has to offer.






























 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















