






















Business Analytics (B.S.B.A.) | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



















Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Programs


                  Business Analytics (B.S.B.A.)
              



Business Analytics (B.S.B.A.)





Program HighlightsCareersCoursesRequirementsTransferCostNext-Steps





Request Info




Apply









 

























About this Program

The Business Analytics major is a unique major that integrates a functional area of business with computer expertise. It is a major that develops skills in the use of the computer as a decision-making tool and provides expertise in a business field in which these skills can be applied. The modern business employer is looking for graduates who have more than just a degree in a particular functional area. They are looking for students who have multiple skills which allow them to serve their company in many ways. Business Analytics provides the training needed to develop those skills.




Program Highlights


You will receive a fully integrated business degree combined with advanced data and quantitative analysis


Courses use multiple data platforms such as Excel, Arena, SAS and SPSS, Tableau, and R programming


Double majors are accommodated with other business disciplines that allow students to complete program with minimal additional coursework


Major areas of statistics and management science techniques, such as simulation, optimization, forecasting, and visualization individually explored in senior level coursework








 




Available In-Person and Online




            AT A GLANCE
          


        Strome College of Business
      



        Department of Information Technology & Decision Sciences
      


Degree Level

        Undergraduate
            


Degree Earned

        Bachelor of Science in Business Administration
            


Delivery Modes












Online















          On-Campus
      


















            Careers
          


Check out these ideas from ODU Career Development Services and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.














Market Research Analysts and Marketing Specialists






            $71,450
      
Median Salary




Research market conditions in local, regional, or national areas, or gather information to determine potential sales of a product or service, or create a marketing campaign. May gather information on competitors, prices, sales, and methods of marketing and distribution.








Financial Analysts






            $99,430
      
Median Salary




Conduct quantitative analyses of information affecting investment programs of public or private institutions.








Budget Analysts






            $78,680
      
Median Salary




Examine budget estimates for completeness, accuracy, and conformance with procedures and regulations. Analyze budgeting and accounting reports.








Logistics Analysts






            $78,740
      
Median Salary




Analyze product delivery or supply chain processes to identify or recommend changes. May manage route activity including invoicing, electronic bills, and shipment tracing.

























        Alumni Careers
            








        Dollar Tree HQ
            













        Norfolk-Souther HQ
            













        Newport News Shipbuiding
            













        US Navy
            













        KPMG
            



























Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for Business Analytics at ODU?
Students entering the Bachelor of Science in Business Administration program in Business Analytics should meet the minimum university admission requirements Undergraduate Admission.


More Program and Degree Requirements








            Transfer
          

At ODU, we understand that as a transfer student you have unique needs that require a wide array of campus resources. The Center for Advising Administration and Academic Partnerships aims to create a transfer inclusive culture that supports the successful...



Transfer Info
























Featured Courses









        BNAL 406
            




View full course description for 
Advanced Spreadsheet-Based Data Analytics



                  This course introduces students to the use of advanced data modeling in spreadsheets and self-service business…
              











        BNAL 406
            



Advanced Spreadsheet-Based Data Analytics





This course introduces students to the use of advanced data modeling in spreadsheets and self-service business intelligence tools to analyze data and make business decisions in Excel. Power Pivot and the DAX language are used to extract meaningful information from large data sets. Power Query is introduced as an ETL tool, and the Power BI Desktop is used for visualization purposes. These topics are then applied to analyze problems in predictive analytics. Examples include advanced multiple regression and classification techniques in data mining. Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in BNAL 301, BNAL 306, and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office.


















        BNAL 415
            




View full course description for 
Advanced Business Analytics/Big Data Applications



                  This course addresses advanced business analytics techniques and the application of such techniques to large data sets.…
              











        BNAL 415
            



Advanced Business Analytics/Big Data Applications





This course addresses advanced business analytics techniques and the application of such techniques to large data sets. Some alternative business analytics strategies are introduced. Descriptive, predictive, and prescriptive models are included. Topics covered in this course include data visualization and exploration, cluster analysis, and developing and calibrating predictive models for big data. Applications of multivariate, logistic, and probit regression to business analytics are discussed. Software packages such as SAS/JMP/SPSS may be used. Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in BNAL 306 and a declared major in the University or permission from the Dean's Office.


















        BNAL 476
            




View full course description for 
Simulation Modeling and Analysis for Business Systems



                  Simulation modeling is an integral part of the analytics revolution, enabling the creation of models that can represent…
              











        BNAL 476
            



Simulation Modeling and Analysis for Business Systems





Simulation modeling is an integral part of the analytics revolution, enabling the creation of models that can represent the variability that exists in many real business systems. This course covers the theory and application of simulation modeling, with an emphasis on how simulation provides predictive and prescriptive analytics to support business decision-making. Topics include simulation fundamentals, the project life-cycle, model development, input and output analysis, verification and validation, and the presentation of a simulation study. We utilize a major commercial simulation software package for assignments and class projects. Prerequisites: OPMT 303 with a grade of C or better and BNAL 306 with a grade of C or better, senior standing and a declared major in the University or permission of the Dean's Office.
















Full Course Catalog














        Cost
            




Estimated rates for the 2023-24 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.






Active Duty Military Rate

Cost Per-Credit
$250





Virginia Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$393





Technology Delivered Courses Outside Virginia and/or the United States

Cost Per-Credit
$407





Non-Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$1,073







Ways to Save
Here are a few ways for you to save on the cost of attending ODU. For more information visit University Student Financial aid






Cost Estimator








            Scholars
      


Tanner Scholars and others available through Strome and the University 






            Internships
      


Internships with major employers in region are abundant 













        Next Steps
            














        Explore Community
            




















        Request Information
            




















        Virtual Tour
            




















        Visit Campus
            



















Contact
















Contact



Undergraduate Admissions



 
          1004 Rollins Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3685
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3255
                
        fax
            
      








admissions@odu.edu

















Contact



International Admissions



 
          2101 Dragas Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3701
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3651
                
        fax
            
      








intladm@odu.edu


























Additional Programs
Are there other programs at ODU I may be interested in?
With over 120 undergraduate programs, 130 graduate programs at the master's, education specialist and doctoral levels plus a wealth of certificate and professional development programs, Old Dominion University has the program for you. Visit our academic program listing page to see other programs ODU has to offer.






























 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















