






















Biomedical Sciences (Ph.D.) | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



















Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Programs


                  Biomedical Sciences (Ph.D.)
              



Biomedical Sciences (Ph.D.)





Program HighlightsCareersCoursesRequirementsCostNext-StepsContact





Request Info




Apply









 

























About this Program

Explore the dynamic field of biomedical sciences in this cutting-edge interdisciplinary doctoral program. Core coursework integrated with seminars and laboratory rotations expose students to the breadth of biomedical inquiry prior to pursuing advanced research concentrations. In this interdisciplinary program, students will be required to master a broad knowledge of basic biomedical sciences. Integration of coursework is reinforced by laboratory experiences and seminars that highlight the interdisciplinary relationship and approach to biomedical research. The student progresses from a set of core courses to advanced courses in their chosen concentration and an in-depth doctoral research project. Under guidance of the graduate faculty, the student will integrate knowledge from the broad spectrum of biomedical disciplines into his or her focus in an area of specialization.




Program Highlights


Students choose from six competitive concentrations: Bioelectrical Science, Bioinformatics & Genomics, Biological Chemistry, Microbiology & Immunology or Stem Cell Research & Regenerative Medicine, and One Health.


Work with award winning research faculty










            AT A GLANCE
          


        Graduate School
      


Degree Level

        Graduate
            


Degree Earned

        Doctor of Philosophy
            


Delivery Modes












          On-Campus
      


















            Careers
          


Check out these ideas from ODU Career Development Services and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.














Biological Science Teachers, Postsecondary






            $93,010
      
Median Salary




Teach courses in biological sciences. Includes both teachers primarily engaged in teaching and those who do a combination of teaching and research.








Medical Scientists, Except Epidemiologists






            $96,070
      
Median Salary




Conduct research dealing with the understanding of human diseases and the improvement of human health. Engage in clinical investigation, research and development, or other related activities. Includes physicians, dentists, public health specialists, pharmacologists, and medical pathologists who primarily conduct research.








Biological Scientists, All Other






            $80,200
      
Median Salary




All biological scientists not listed separately.








Biomedical Engineers






            $92,970
      
Median Salary




Apply knowledge of engineering, biology, and biomechanical principles to the design, development, and evaluation of biological and health systems and products, such as artificial organs, prostheses, instrumentation, medical information systems, and health management and care delivery systems.


































Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for Biomedical Sciences at ODU?
Students entering the Doctor of Philosophy program in Biomedical Sciences should meet the minimum university admission requirements Graduate Admission.


Admissions Requirements
Students admitted to the program should ordinarily hold a B.S. degree in one of the life sciences, including biology, biochemistry, biomedical engineering, chemistry or microbiology. The requirements for admission to the Biomedical Sciences Ph.D. program are as follows:

A bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university with a B (3.00) average on a 4.0 scale. Students with advanced degrees are encouraged to apply.
Transcripts of coursework only from institutions awarding a bachelor's or master's degree.
A statement of personal goals and academic objectives.
Writing sample on a science related topic (from a course or from your research experience).
Resume listing all degrees earned and work experience.
Three letters of recommendation on letterhead, preferably from faculty members at colleges attended who are familiar with the applicant's academic and research capabilities.
A completed application form.
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) or the International English Language Testing System (IELTS) test scores, sent directly from ETS to the ODU International Graduate Admissions Office. Test scores must accompany applications for non-native English speaking candidates with a degree issued outside of the United States.

Consideration of applicants for entrance into the fall semester will begin December 15th and continue until the class is filled. The closing date to receive complete applications is February 1st. Spring and summer entrance on a case-by-case basis is only allowed for Post-M.S. students. Applicants must be accepted by an ODU mentor before applying. Please email all questions regarding this special process. Please note that students who are currently enrolled in master's study either at the University or another institution are strongly encouraged to complete their degree before applying to the Biomedical Sciences Ph.D. program since the acceptance of all graduate credits previously earned cannot be guaranteed Students holding a bachelor's degree in another, related field such as computer science, mathematics and physics may need to take leveling courses in the biological and chemical sciences or pursue master's level work in those fields. Both the Biological Sciences and Chemistry & Biochemistry Departments offer master's degrees.




More Program and Degree Requirements





For Admission to the Biomedical Sciences Program





        Tests
            



Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or Medical College Admission Test (MCAT). English Proficiency Requirement for Non-Native Speakers of English, 84 internet-based Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL)








        Recommendations
            



Three letters of recommendation








        Writing Sample	
            



Yes








        Transcripts	
            



Transcripts of coursework only from institutions awarding a bachelor's or master's degree.

























Featured Courses









        CHEM 865
            




View full course description for 
Advanced Biochemistry



                  This course will cover macromolecular structure, function, thermodynamic stability and folding kinetics; protein…
              











        CHEM 865
            



Advanced Biochemistry





This course will cover macromolecular structure, function, thermodynamic stability and folding kinetics; protein chemistry; molecular biology; and molecular mechanisms of disease and bioinformatics.


















        BIOL 810
            




View full course description for 
Advanced Cell Biology



                  This course will cover selected current topics in cell biology that reflect recent advances in the field. Major topics…
              











        BIOL 810
            



Advanced Cell Biology





This course will cover selected current topics in cell biology that reflect recent advances in the field. Major topics include membranes and transport, signal transduction, cell adhesion and motility, cell cycle, apoptosis, and specialized cell functions. Students will read current research papers that describe the latest innovations in microscopic and molecular analysis of cellular function. This course is built on previous coursework in cell biology by reinforcing key fundamental concepts and performing a more in-depth examination of cellular mechanisms. Prerequisite: Course background in cell biology is recommended.


















        MDTS 850
            




View full course description for 
MOL GEN GEN FUNCT & GENOMICS



                  The goals of this course are a comprehensive understanding of the mechanisms involved in molecular genetics and gene…
              











        MDTS 850
            



MOL GEN GEN FUNCT & GENOMICS





The goals of this course are a comprehensive understanding of the mechanisms involved in molecular genetics and gene function and in-depth exploration of modern experimental analyses of these processes. Topics include DNA replication, repair, and recombination; transcription; epigenetic regulation of transcription; chromatin structure, histone modifications, transcription factors, and regulatory RNAs; long-range chromatin interactions and gene regulation; post-transcriptional gene regulation and translation; molecular biology based experimental analysis of gene function; and experimental genomic approaches to gene regulation and gene function.




























        Cost
            




Estimated rates for the 2023-24 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.






Virginia Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$599





Technology Delivered Courses Outside Virginia and/or the United States

Cost Per-Credit
$623





Non-Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$1,439







Ways to Save
Here are a few ways for you to save on the cost of attending ODU. For more information visit University Student Financial aid






Cost Estimator








            Research and Teaching Assistantships
      


Students on research or teaching assistantships may be eligible for a tuition waiver. 






            Financial Aid
      











        Next Steps
            














        Explore Community
            




















        Request Information
            




















        Virtual Tour
            




















        Visit Campus
            



















Contact


















Genny Conwell


                  Office Administrator & Coordinator of Graduate Interdisciplinary Programs
                


757-683-5645



          MONARCH HALL          
        NORFOLK,            23529
  




















Contact



Graduate Admissions



 
          1000 Rollins Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3685
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3255
                
        fax
            
      








gradadmit@odu.edu

















Contact



International Admissions



 
          2101 Dragas Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3701
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3651
                
        fax
            
      








intladm@odu.edu


























Additional Programs
Are there other programs at ODU I may be interested in?
With over 120 undergraduate programs, 130 graduate programs at the master's, education specialist and doctoral levels plus a wealth of certificate and professional development programs, Old Dominion University has the program for you. Visit our academic program listing page to see other programs ODU has to offer.






























 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















