






















Cybersecurity (Minor) | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



















Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Programs


                  Cybersecurity (Minor)
              



Cybersecurity (Minor)





Program HighlightsCareersCoursesRequirementsTransferCostNext-StepsContact





Request Info




Apply









 

























About this Program

The interdisciplinary minor in cybersecurity is focused on the technological, structural, social, and legal frameworks used to secure computer networks and software. The study of cybersecurity combines multiple fields including computer science, engineering, information technology, criminal justice, and philosophy, to name a few. In an effort to promote the security of computer networks, software, and cyber information, an interdisciplinary understanding about technological, legal, philosophical, and structural aspects of cybersecurity is needed. This minor will provide students from different majors the knowledge they need to understand, manage, prevent or respond to cyber incidents they are likely to encounter in their careers.




Program Highlights


The National Security Agency has designed ODU as a National Center of Academic Excellence (CAE) in Cyber Operations for the period 2019-2024


ODU faculty have active research programs in areas of cybersecurity.


Interdisciplinary nature of the program brings together cybersecurity focused expertise from multiple disciplines.








 




Available In-Person and Online




            AT A GLANCE
          


        College of Arts & Letters
      



        Interdisciplinary Studies Program
      


Degree Level

        Undergraduate
            


Degree Earned

        Minor
            


Delivery Modes












Online















          On-Campus
      


















            Careers
          


Check out these ideas from ODU Career Development Services and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.














Security Management Specialists






            $75,740
      
Median Salary




Conduct security assessments for organizations, and design security systems and processes. May specialize in areas such as physical security, personnel security, and information security. May work in fields such as health care, banking, gaming, security engineering, or manufacturing.








Information Security Analysts






            $99,690
      
Median Salary




Plan, implement, upgrade, or monitor security measures for the protection of computer networks and information. May ensure appropriate security controls are in place that will safeguard digital files and vital electronic infrastructure. May respond to computer security breaches and viruses.








Network and Computer Systems Administrators






            $86,340
      
Median Salary




Install, configure, and support an organization's local area network (LAN), wide area network (WAN), and Internet systems or a segment of a network system. Monitor network to ensure network availability to all system users and may perform necessary maintenance to support network availability. May monitor and test Web site performance to ensure Web sites operate correctly and without interruption. May assist in network modeling, analysis, planning, and coordination between network and data communications hardware and software. May supervise computer user support specialists and computer network support specialists. May administer network security measures.








Computer Systems Analysts






            $92,740
      
Median Salary




Analyze science, engineering, business, and other data processing problems to implement and improve computer systems. Analyze user requirements, procedures, and problems to automate or improve existing systems and review computer system capabilities, workflow, and scheduling limitations. May analyze or recommend commercially available software.


































Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for Cybersecurity  at ODU?
Students entering the Minor program in Cybersecurity  should meet the minimum university admission requirements Undergraduate Admission.


Interdisciplinary minors require 12 credit hours of 300/400-level courses selected from at least two different disciplines with a maximum of six credits from any one discipline. 




More Program and Degree Requirements








            Transfer
          

At ODU, we understand that as a transfer student you have unique needs that require a wide array of campus resources. The Center for Advising Administration and Academic Partnerships aims to create a transfer inclusive culture that supports the successful...



Transfer Info
























Featured Courses









        CYSE 300
            




View full course description for 
Introduction to Cybersecurity



                  This course is part of the Day One Access program; you should not purchase any course materials denoted by the Day One…
              











        CYSE 300
            



Introduction to Cybersecurity





This course is part of the Day One Access program; you should not purchase any course materials denoted by the Day One Access logo as they are part of your course registration. In the event you drop this course from your schedule on or prior to the last day of DROP/ADD period, your account will be fully refunded automatically if you received a digital textbook. If you received a physical textbook you will need to return the textbook to the store and your account will be refunded at that time.


















        CYSE 301
            




View full course description for 
Cybersecurity Techniques and Operations



                  This course introduces tools and techniques used to secure and analyze large computer networks and systems. Students…
              











        CYSE 301
            



Cybersecurity Techniques and Operations





This course introduces tools and techniques used to secure and analyze large computer networks and systems. Students will explore and map networks using a variety of diagnostic software tools, learn advanced packet analysis, configure firewalls, write intrusion detection rules, perform forensic investigation, and practice techniques for penetration testing. Prerequisite: MATH 162M or permission of the instructor.


















        CS 463
            




View full course description for 
Cryptography for Cybersecurity



                  This course covers mathematical foundations, including information theory, number theory, factoring, and prime number…
              











        CS 463
            



Cryptography for Cybersecurity





This course covers mathematical foundations, including information theory, number theory, factoring, and prime number generation; cryptographic protocols, including basic building blocks and protocols; cryptographic techniques, including key generation and key management, and applications; and cryptographic algorithms--DES, AES, stream ciphers, hash functions, digital signatures, etc. Prerequisites: MATH 162M.




























        Cost
            




Estimated rates for the 2023-24 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.






Active Duty Military Rate

Cost Per-Credit
$250





Virginia Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$393





Technology Delivered Courses Outside Virginia and/or the United States

Cost Per-Credit
$407





Non-Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$1,073







Ways to Save
Here are a few ways for you to save on the cost of attending ODU. For more information visit University Student Financial aid






Cost Estimator











        Next Steps
            














        Explore Community
            




















        Request Information
            




















        Virtual Tour
            




















        Visit Campus
            



















Contact


















Saltuk Karahan PhD


                  Undergraduate Program Director, School of Cybersecurity
                


757-683-3815


skarahan@odu.edu



          2115 C MONARCH HALL          
        NORFOLK,            23529
  




















Contact



Undergraduate Admissions



 
          1004 Rollins Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3685
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3255
                
        fax
            
      








admissions@odu.edu

















Contact



International Admissions



 
          2101 Dragas Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3701
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3651
                
        fax
            
      








intladm@odu.edu
































        Related Programs
            



Cybersecurity (B.S.)


Cybercrime (Interdisciplinary Studies, B.S.)






































 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















