





















Speech & Activism | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



























 














Breadcrumb


Home


Student Engagement & Enrollment Services


                  Speech & Activism
              



Speech & Activism












            Please Note
          


This website is being modified to better serve you. The information is being reviewed and edited to ensure accuracy and user-friendliness. Should you have any questions or concerns about this website, please contact Dr. Kate Windstead-Reichner, Executive Director for Student Engagement & Traditions at kwinstea@odu.edu.































            Free Speech & Diversity
      


Old Dominion encourages diversity in every aspect of the university. Diversity enhances and enriches the educational, employment, and community experience. To this end, we must foster an environment conducive for meaningful and robust expression of ideas reflecting variety points of view. That is why at ODU we recognize the importance of protecting freedom of speech as a "right" and a cherished value that enhances the learning experience.












Virginia Law Reaffirming Free Speech





The First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution states, in part, that "Congress shall pass no law infringing on freedom of speech." The protections of the First Amendment are extended to state governments and public university campuses by the Fourteenth Amendment. Virginia passed a law in 2017 reaffirming free speech and speakers on public college campuses. Old Dominion University cannot censor speakers that are sponsored by our students. However, speakers are still required to comply with the law and University policies. These regulations reflect the educational purposes of the University and are for the protection and safety of the University community.
Please see the University's report on compliance with Virginia Code Section 23.1-401.1., which addresses how Virginia's public, higher-education institutions must address constitutionally protected speech.













university-policies.pdf











ODU's Policy





Old Dominion University strives to inform students about individual freedoms of expression and diversity of opinion.ODU supports freedom of expression while fostering a climate for civil and respectful dialogue ODU also strives to empower students as to how to respond and advocate when they are faced with speech that may be contrary to their own values and/or that of the University. ODU also affords students ways to affirm their rights when their constitutionally protected speech is disrupted. If you have related questions or concerns, please complete this form or call the Executive Director for Student Engagement & Traditions at 757-683-3446 for help. 
Please also feel free to contact a member of our Freedom of Expression Team—so that we may assist and/or refer you to resources that support your awareness, interest, and well-being in this pivotal time of social consciousness, discourse, and activism.













            Reporting A Concern 
      


If you believe someone or something is hindering your freedom of speech, or you believe you are being targeted and/or harassed by speech:


Contact the Executive Director for Student Engagement & Traditions 


If you have a concern about potentially violent behavior:


Contact the Threat Education Assessment & Management Team 


If you have a concern about discrimination/harassment:


Contact Institutional Equity & Diversity 











Student Engagement & Enrollment Services


Home


About


Student Resources


Division Leadership


Enrollment


Engagement


Inclusion


Learning


Student Success


Initiatives


Brother 2 Brother


First Star Academy


FeedODU


Speech & Activism


Center for Social Mobility


Monarchs Give Back




Employment Opportunities


Administration


Leadership Team


Committees


Assessment & Planning


SEES Communication



















Directory










        Quick Links
            



AAUP Student Rights & Freedoms 


FERPA 


Intercultural Relations 


Student Engagement & Traditions 


Student Conduct & Academic Integrity 


Demonstration Policy 


Institutional Equity & Diversity 


University Police 

















            Freedom of Speech Handout
          


Learn more about your first amendment rights and how it applies to Old Dominion University. 




Download Flyer

















            Frequently Asked Questions
          






Examples of Free Speech?





Speech can take place in various forms, including, but not limited to face to face communication, internet/social media communication, art, music and clothing.







How Do I Exercise My Freedom of Speech at ODU?





As a student, you have many opportunities to express your point of view—some routine activities include:

Classroom participation
Joining student organizations
Planning events and creating forums for expression

You also have the right to peacefully assemble and engage in vigils, demonstrations and protests.







Where Can Free Speech (vigils, demonstrations, protests) Occur on Campus?





It may occur anywhere as ODU does not have any specific "free-speech" zones. However, ODU encourages students to reserve space for all events - including events that involve freedom of expression, such as peaceful vigils, demonstrations, and protests. While all indoor spaces may only be reserved by a sponsoring student organization, outside space for the purpose of free speech can be reserved by individual students in addition to student organizations. As a reminder, ODU is providing the location for free speech to occur and time, place and manner rules apply (see below). However, the content of the speech and the event itself are not sponsored by ODU. These are sponsored by the student or student organization and the sponsor should be present for the duration of the event. Please refer to Policy 1700-University Demonstrations Policy for additional information on reserving space.







How Does ODU Support My Right to Demonstrate & Protest?





The University affirms the right to engage in peaceful, orderly demonstrations, and will facilitate these events in an impartial manner within practical rules designed by the University. The right to demonstrate does not include engaging in actions that disrupt the University's operations or endangers the safety of others. Procedures have been established to regulate the time, place, and manner of such activities, but these regulations are not for the purpose of censorship. For more information, please refer to the University Demonstrations Policy. If you are a student and are interested in planning a vigil, demonstration or protest, please contact Student Engagement & Traditions at http://cglink.me/s22989 or 757-683-3446.
Please note that participants of freedom of expression related events must follow ODU protocols related to COVID-19 safety. Refer to the Interim University Policy 1006 COVID 19.







What Are The Limits?





Time, place and manner parameters: The University has various policies including the above cited demonstrations policy, use space, restrictions on hanging posters in designated areas, student conduct related policies, among others that regulate the time, place and manner of the speech. As the Foundation for Individual Rights in Education (FIRE) describes it...these restrictions, " define when, where, and how a speaker may present a message. For example, while it may be permissible to shout "Stop the war!" or "Support our troops!" at noon in the open space in front of a campus administration building, the campus administration has the right to prevent the same speech from being delivered at the same decibel level in the hall of a dormitory at 3:00AM," See FIRE.
Unprotected Speech: Not all speech is protected by the First amendment, the following categories of speech fall outside of these constitutional protections. These categories include the following:

Incitement - to provoke "imminent unlawful action."
Making a "true threat" - expressing the intent of committing violence to a particular individual or group of individuals.
"Fighting words" - (limited to fac-to-face communications) where "by the very act of being spoken, tend to incite the targeted individual to respond immediately with violence.
Obscenity - (depiction of sexual conduct)
Defamation - false communication that harms the individual's reputation

For a complete description of these categories, please refer to the Foundation for Individual Rights in Education (FIRE) website.







What's The Difference Between Hate Speech & a Hate Crime?





Most speech, including offensive and hateful speech is still protected under the First amendment. According to ACLU Legal Director, Steven Shapiro, "the First Amendment really was designed to protect a debate at the fringes. You don't need the courts to protect speech that everybody agrees with, because that speech will be tolerated. You need a First Amendment to protect speech that people regard as intolerable or outrageous or offensive — because that is when the majority will wield its power to censor or suppress, and we have a First Amendment to prevent the government from doing that."
Hate Crime = Crime + Bias
In contrast a hate crime is a punishable offense that is committed with the motivation of bias as defined by federal and state law. According to the FBI, a hate crime is a traditional offense like murder, arson, or vandalism with an added element of bias. For the purposes of collecting statistics, the FBI has defined a hate crime as a "criminal offense against a person or property motivated in whole or in part by an offender's bias against a race, religion, disability, sexual orientation, ethnicity, gender, or gender identity," See FBI Website.
Within the Commonwealth of Virginia, a hate crime is defined as " (i) a criminal act committed against a person or their property with the specific intent of instilling fear or intimidation in the individual against whom the act is perpetrated because of race, religion, gender, disability, gender identity, sexual orientation, or ethnic or national origin or that is committed for the purpose of restraining that person from exercising his rights under the Constitution or laws of the Commonwealth or of the United States. For full text, see Code of Virginia § 52-8.5.
ODU's demonstration policy highlights some expression related "symbolic speech" crimes including burning crosses, placing swastikas and/or hanging a noose on certain property. See University Demonstration Policy's description of symbolic speech at https://www.odu.edu/about/policiesandprocedures/university/1000/1700.
Our University Police enforces the law and collects reports of hate crimes in compliance with the Clery Act. See https://www.odu.edu/police/clery#tab187=1. Should you encounter this or any other crime any crime you should report it to our University Police or your police in your locality.







What's The Difference Between Hate/Bias Speech & Harassment?





Bias is a preconceived negative opinion or attitude about a group of people who possess common characteristics and/or cultural experience. While "bias" speech is often disturbing, polarizing, and likely to cause negative consequences such as loss of trust and/or mutual respect, this speech is NOT presumed to be a policy violation of harassment.
Old Dominion University's Discrimination Policy defines harassment as "unwelcome conduct that is sufficiently severe, persistent or pervasive, and subjectively and objectively offensive as to substantially or effectively disrupt or undermine a person's ability to participate in or benefit from a University program or activity, including, but not limited to, employment." Bias does not raise to the level of harassment unless it reaches to the level of this definition. For more information about harassment, please contact the Office of Institutional Equity & Diversity.
Here are some examples that distinguish bias from discriminatory harassment.
Bias: Upon first meeting a student, you joke on them because of their language or accent or make fun of their traditional manner of dress or geographic origin.
Harassment: You constantly insult this student (in person and through social-media) resulting in a severe and persistent pattern of bullying - because of their language, accent, traditional manner, or geographic origin.







How Can I Respond to Offensive Speech?





If you are comfortable and safe--(and the speech is not a threat/crime) consider speaking directly to the individual making the offensive remark. In some circumstances, the individual might not have intended to "offend" yet the impact of their expression clearly "reads" as bias. Some examples include making jokes that reinforce stereotypes, engaging in sexual banter, mimicking a stereotype of a culture,) etc. When engaging in these discussions, it helps to describe exactly what you heard and/or have observed, then share how you felt about it and explain why what you experienced with that individual is offensive.
If you are not comfortable with talking with the individual, you can give cues to convey you are not in agreement with what has been said. Such cues include silence, changing the subject or ending the conversation.
And if it is obvious that the individual's intent is to offend—you can call it out, or ignore it in order to deprive that individual of a reaction or audience.
Finally, if you are not comfortable confronting offensive speech (but you are still disturbed by the speech), you can always discuss your concerns with an instructor, trusted staff member or a member of our Freedom of Expression team.








Intent vs. Impact?





It is critical to understand intent versus impact related to speech. You may not "mean to" or have a malicious motive for saying or doing something that someone else takes it as being derogatory or offensive. However, what you intend does not always align with how your actions are being "received" by or conveyed to an individual or group. Regardless of the intent, words and actions have impact. That is why we encourage our Monarch citizens to be intentional about engaging in respectful discussions, where the speaker is informed, respects differences and demonstrates a "care" for what is being said to their audience. "When you focus on the impact you have on others, you demonstrate a willingness to take stock of your actions and how they affect others,"—diversityedu at https://diversityedu.com/blog/inclusive-workplace/intent-vs-impact For the listener, it is helpful not to make assumptions about what is intended by the person speaking. It is helpful to ask for clarification.... i.e. I heard you say "x" -what did you mean by that? It is also helpful to express that any "ill" intent of the speech is NOT welcomed.



































 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















