






















Community College Leadership (Ph.D.) | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



















Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Programs


                  Community College Leadership (Ph.D.)
              



Community College Leadership (Ph.D.)





Program HighlightsCareersCoursesRequirementsCostNext-StepsContact





Request Info




Apply









 

























About this Program

The program has a strong reputation as an academically rigorous program that emphasizes executive-level leadership preparation. Students interact with some of the most important higher education leaders and policymakers in the U.S. while studying under the guidance of dedicated faculty members.




Program Highlights


Reputation: ODU is a high-quality, nationally-recognized program that enrolls community college leaders across the U.S.


Dissertation: Dissertation work starts day one and is supported through timely completion


Live Video Online: Live video courses are scheduled in the late afternoon and evenings at times that let working professionals stay in their current positions while earning a high-quality degree


Team-Taught: Courses are team-taught by dedicated faculty and national community college leaders, as well as state and institutional guest speakers from across the U.S.


Summer Institute: Cohorts of community college leaders from across the U.S. gather once-a-year at our annual Summer Institute


Affordable: Our competitive tuition rates make the program worth the investment. Out-of-state students pay close to the in-state rate








 




Available In-Person and Online




            AT A GLANCE
          


        Darden College of Education & Professional Studies
      



        Department of STEM Education & Professional Studies
      


Degree Level

        Graduate
            


Degree Earned

        Doctor of Philosophy
            


Delivery Modes












Online















          On-Campus
      


















            Careers
          


Check out these ideas from ODU Career Development Services and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.














Education Administrators, All Other






            $88,240
      
Median Salary




All education administrators not listed separately.








Education Administrators, Postsecondary






            $107,670
      
Median Salary




Plan, direct, or coordinate research, instructional, student administration and services, and other educational activities at postsecondary institutions, including universities, colleges, and junior and community colleges.


































Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for Community College Leadership at ODU?
Students entering the Doctor of Philosophy program in Community College Leadership should meet the minimum university admission requirements Graduate Admission.


Ph.D. applicants have the option to apply for either priority admission or regular admission. The deadline for priority admission is November 1st. Applicants may also apply for the regular admission cycle by February 1st to begin in the summer semester.
 




Complete an online application;


Upload unofficial transcripts from previous educational institutions;


Applicants whose native language is not English must submit a current score for the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) iBT of at least 80.
Applicants also upload supplemental materials including:
•    A CV or resume that describes the your academic and professional background;
•    1-page Statement of Purpose that addresses: What are your professional goals? Why do you wish to obtain a PhD?
•    An original 2-page single-spaced academic writing sample on a current issue facing community colleges of interest to you that adresses: What is the issue? Why is it important to the field of community college research and practice?


Three (3) letters of recommendation. At least one letter must come from a professor or an individual who describes the applicant's academic performance and writing ability. Letters from senior-level leaders that endorse the applicant's leadership potential are encouraged. Applicants will enter the emails for references in the online system, and references will be emailed a link to upload a letter of recommendation on letterhead and complete the online reference form.


Complete a phone interview.  The admissions committee composed of program faculty will review all applications then will select applicants for an interview via phone with the committee or committee member(s). Interviews will be used to determine final admissions decisions.




More Program and Degree Requirements





















Featured Courses









        CCL 820
            




View full course description for 
Community College Leadership



                  Provides students with the theory, knowledge and skills needed to be an effective leader within the community college…
              











        CCL 820
            



Community College Leadership





Provides students with the theory, knowledge and skills needed to be an effective leader within the community college system. Course assignments take a practical approach to identifying and applying theoretical principles and personal leadership style. Prerequisites: Acceptance into the doctoral program or permission of the instructor.


















        CCL 824
            




View full course description for 
Community College Finance, Fundraising, and Resource Management



                  An examination of the necessary financial knowledge and skills required for community college leaders through the…
              











        CCL 824
            



Community College Finance, Fundraising, and Resource Management





An examination of the necessary financial knowledge and skills required for community college leaders through the exploration of how the mission and goals of the community college are directly connected to financial considerations. Course activities help prepare students to take leadership roles in budget decisions, development of state and local government appropriations, fundraising, resource management, and financial decisions that are based on data and realistic institutional goals. Prerequisite: Acceptance into the doctoral program or permission of the instructor.


















        CCL 826
            




View full course description for 
Community College Curriculum, Program Development, and Quality Assurance



                  A critical examination of community college curricula and program development. Students will develop the knowledge to…
              











        CCL 826
            



Community College Curriculum, Program Development, and Quality Assurance





A critical examination of community college curricula and program development. Students will develop the knowledge to understand and defend curricular issues related to developmental education, transfer education, career, technical and vocational education, continuing education, and general education. Prerequisite: Acceptance into the doctoral program or permission of the instructor.
















Full Course Catalog














        Cost
            




Estimated rates for the 2023-24 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.






Virginia Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$599





Technology Delivered Courses Outside Virginia and/or the United States

Cost Per-Credit
$623





Non-Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$1,439







Ways to Save
Here are a few ways for you to save on the cost of attending ODU. For more information visit University Student Financial aid






Cost Estimator











        Next Steps
            














        Explore Community
            




















        Request Information
            




















        Virtual Tour
            




















        Visit Campus
            



















Contact


















James Bartlett


                  Associate Professor
                


757-683-3938


jbartlet@odu.edu



          EDUCATION BUILDING          
        NORFOLK,            23529
  




















Contact



Graduate Admissions



 
          1000 Rollins Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3685
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3255
                
        fax
            
      








gradadmit@odu.edu

















Contact



International Admissions



 
          2101 Dragas Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3701
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3651
                
        fax
            
      








intladm@odu.edu


























Additional Programs
Are there other programs at ODU I may be interested in?
With over 120 undergraduate programs, 130 graduate programs at the master's, education specialist and doctoral levels plus a wealth of certificate and professional development programs, Old Dominion University has the program for you. Visit our academic program listing page to see other programs ODU has to offer.






























 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















