




















Interlibrary Loan | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



























 














Breadcrumb


Home


University Libraries


Services


                  Interlibrary Loan
              



Interlibrary Loan













Interlibrary loan (ILL) is a free service, using the ILLiad system, that allows you to request journal articles, books, and other needed research materials that are not available at ODU. The pick-up and return location for all Interlibrary Loan materials is the Help Desk in the Learning Commons, 1st floor of Perry Library. The Interlibrary Loan and Document Delivery Services Unit is located in Perry Library, Room 4000, and staff are available to answer ILL related questions. Please contact them at 757-683-4170 or libill@odu.edu.



















Login to Interlibrary Loan









            Frequently Asked Questions
          






Who is eligible for ILL services?






ODU students, faculty, staff, and lifetime members of Friends of the University Libraries are eligible to use ILL services.








How do I sign up for an account?






To register for interlibrary loan services, you must create an ILLiad account (top of page). Log in using your MIDAS ID, then fill out the form on the ILLiad webpages.








How do I access my account?






Once you have signed up for ILL services you can access your account (top of page) and log in using your MIDAS ID. From your account you can check the status of your pending requests, see which items you have checked out with their due dates, change your password or personal information, and make manual requests for items.








How much does it cost?






Generally, there is no cost for users to acquire materials via interlibrary loan. Most costs are paid by the ODU Libraries. In rare situations the lending library charges a fee we are unable to pay. In these cases, we contact you to determine if you are willing to pay these additional charges.








What types of materials can I request?






You may request materials found in Monarch OneSearch, online research databases, bibliographies, or reference lists from journal articles, books, dissertations, etc. If you have a citation, we can attempt to borrow it!








What types are hard to obtain?






Widely published books and journal articles are usually acquired quickly and easily. We will attempt to acquire all items requested; however, the following items are often difficult and sometimes impossible to obtain:

Books published very recently, especially current fiction
Popular non-academic media - CDs and DVDs
Mixed media - slides, art catalogs, etc.
Entire issues of journals
Archival materials
Books more than 75 years old
Books owned by only a handful of libraries
Books not available in any North American libraries
Foreign dissertations
Material that is "in press" but has not yet been officially released by the publisher
Textbooks









How do I place a request?






You can place requests directly through some online research databases or you can login to your ILLiad account and create a manual request.








How long does it take to receive materials?






Delivery times vary depending on the type of material you request and which library sends us your requested materials. Articles can arrive in as little as a few hours and as long as 7-10 days. Books and A/V materials generally arrive 3-10 days after the request is placed.








When and where can I pick up my materials?






The pick-up and return location for all Interlibrary Loan materials is the Help Desk, 1st Floor, Perry Library. Interlibrary Loan and Document Delivery Services staff members are located in Perry Library, Room 4000-West (4th floor) to answer your questions. They can also be contacted at libill@odu.edu or 757-683-4170.
If you requested an article, it will likely be delivered electronically to your ILLiad account. To access these documents, you must login to your ILLiad account (top of page). Select "Electronically Received Articles" under View on the left navigation bar to view and download them.








I am a distance learning student. Do I have to come to campus to pick up materials?






We will mail you the materials you request, including books in the ODU Libraries collections, to your home address or your distance learning site. Request an electronic UPS return label at libill@odu.edu. Please provide your email address and home address on the UPS return label.








Why was my request cancelled?






Requests are cancelled for a variety of reasons, including:

It is available through the ODU Libraries collections
It is available for free online
It is a rare item and we have been unable to locate a copy to borrow
The item is written in a foreign language and you did not indicate that other languages are acceptable









How do I check the status of a request? How do I check what items I have checked out and their due dates?






You can check the status of a request by logging into your ILLiad account (top of page). Select "Outstanding Requests" under View on the left navigation bar to check the status. To view a list of items you have checked out with their due dates, select "Checked Out Items"








Is there a limit to how many items I can request?






ODU Libraries are committed to serving the research needs of faculty, students and staff. There are no limits on the number of requests you can make or the number of items you can have checked out. Because interlibrary loan is an expensive service subsidized by the university we do, however, ask that you only request items needed for your research.








Can I keep ILL materials the entire semester?






No. The due date for the items you borrow is set by the lending library and generally ranges from two to eight weeks. If the book label is not stamped "No Renewal" we may be able to renew the item for another loan period (another two to eight weeks). If you need a book for an extended period of time, we recommend that you place a new request for it a week or two before the due date on the copy you have.








Can I renew items?






If the book label is stamped "No Renewal" the lending library will not allow an extension of the due date. If there is no stamp we can request a renewal, but the decision is made by the lending library and not the ODU ILL office.
You have several options for requesting a renewal:

Login to your ILLiad account (top of page) and view the item you want to renew under "Checked Out Items" on the left navigation bar. Click on transaction number of the item you want to renew. If you see a "Renew Request" button above the transaction information, you can attempt to request a renewal.
You can respond to the automatic due date reminder email that you receive approximately one week before an item is due
You can contact us directly at libill@odu.edu or 757-683-4170









Can I borrow textbooks?






We will attempt to acquire any item that you request; however, most libraries do not own current editions of textbooks, so it is unlikely we would be able to get the book for you. If a library does own it, it is often in a non-circulating reserve collection and unavailable for interlibrary loan. You are welcome to request an earlier edition of a required textbook.








Can I obtain translations of foreign language materials?






If you indicate that you only want English language materials and there is a published English language translation of the requested item we will attempt to obtain it. If the item is written in a foreign language and there is not a published English language translation we cannot translate the item for you.








Can I receive color copies of articles?






Possibly. Some libraries are able to provide color copies, though many are not. If you need a color copy of an article, please indicate this in the notes field of the request and we will try to find a library that can supply it. If we are unable to locate a provider, we will contact you to determine if black-and-white is acceptable.








What are your policies on overdue ILL materials?






Items should be returned on or before the due date listed on the book label. We will contact via email approximately 7 days before the item is due, 7 days after the item is due, and 21 days after the item is due. At 21 days overdue, we will place a block on your ILLiad and library accounts. At 28 days overdue, you will begin to accrue fines of $1/day until the item is returned. Overdue fines only post to the patron's account at the point the book is checked in. If the item is more than 60 days overdue, you will be billed an $80 replacement fee. If you return the item after this point, we will forgive the $80 replacement fee, but the overdue fines will stand.








What are your policies on lost ILL materials?






If you determine that you have lost an item, please contact the ILL department either in person, by phone at 757-683-4171, or by email at libill@odu.edu. We will contact the lending library to determine what options are available to replace the lost item and inform you of their preference.













University Libraries


Home


Research Collections


Databases A-Z


Journal/Newspaper


ODU Archives Collections


Digital Commons




Services


Equipment Loan


Copy, Print, Scan


Borrowing Materials


Interlibrary Loan


Course Reserves




Help


Accessibility


Library Guides


Subject Librarians


Copyright and Publishing Support


Instructional Support


Report an Electronic Resource Problem




Places & Spaces


Room Reservations


Perry Library


Learning Commons


Elise N. Hofheimer Art Library


Music Library & Diehn Composers Room


Special Collections & University Archives


Perry Library Floor Maps




Information for...


Faculty and Graduate Students


Undergraduate Students


Distance Learners


Alumni, Community, and Consortial Members




About


Hours


Policies


News, Events, and Exhibits


Staff Directory


Employment Opportunities


Support the Libraries













Contact


University Libraries



 


          4427 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  










757-683-4178
                
        Office
            
      









learningcommons@odu.edu







Directory















Facebook













Instagram













Twitter













YouTube























Support The Libraries















chat loading...


































 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















