





















Student Health Services | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 




















Student Health Services has MOVED


You may locate us in the new Student Recreation and Well-Being Center on the first floor in Suite 1402.



Monarch Wellness Portal 










Student Health Services


Student Health Services is an accredited outpatient clinic staffed with high-quality professionals dedicated to providing exceptional care to current ODU students. 























 

















Breadcrumb


Home


                  Student Health Services
              



Student Health Services





















Schedule Appointment

















Location & Hours

















After-Hours Assistance 















            Announcements 
          






Student Health Forms Due by August 1st







All newly admitted full time students health forms are due by August 1, 2023.









COVID-19





Dear Monarch Community,
We have entered the end of the COVID-19 public health emergency and have made some changes for our free COVID-19 testing and masking policies. Effective May 8th if you need symptomatic or asymptomatic COVID-19 testing please call Student Health Services at 757-683-3132. There will be a fee for most COVID-19 testing. Students with symptoms are asked to take a home test if available prior to coming in the clinic for testing. 
Old Dominion University will continue to monitor and adjust operations as needed to respond to changes or guidance provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the Virginia Department of Health (VDH). Please take note of the following information and current guidance.
Mitigating the Risk of COVID-19

Find a test location.
 
Masking is optional unless otherwise noted, such as in the Student Health Center or as part of academic program elements like clinicals that may require masks for participation. Masks will continue to be available at locations across campus.


Students participating in clinical experiences and/or course labs are required to comply with the COVID-19 policies and procedures of their assigned clinical and/or lab site. This includes compliance with any masking requirements as noted above.


For vaccine information, visit Vaccinate Virginia for local and regional sites. Please continue to read the ODU Announcements for the next COVID-19 Pop-Up Clinic.


Persons with a recent confirmed exposure should wear a well-fitting mask for 10 days when indoors and should receive testing at day five or greater after exposure and sooner if symptomatic: regardless of vaccination status.

Managing COVID-19

You are no longer required to complete a report if you test positive or believe you have been a close contact of someone who has tested positive. We will no longer offer case management services for employees or students. This also means that ODU will no longer publish its COVID-19 Dashboard.


If you test positive, do not attend classes, work, or events at ODU for five days or as long as you are sick.


The CDC calls for anyone who tests positive to isolate for at least five days, wear a well-fitted mask when around others for an additional five days, and notify close contacts. Click here for additional information.


Students should contact Student Outreach and Support at ODUCares@odu.edu for assistance with notification to instructors regarding an extended absence of a week or more due to extenuating circumstances (medical, death in immediate family, etc.). This notification serves as a verification of extenuating circumstances; all decisions about excused absences and makeup work are made at the discretion of the instructor.








Parking for Student Health Service Patients





Parking for Student Health Services Patients
Parking space #4905 is available adjacent to Owens Hall for student patients who may have difficulty accessing Student Health due to physical limitations or illness. Students who use this parking space must provide their vehicle information and license number to the Student Health Center receptionist on arrival and vacate the parking space on leaving the Student Health Center.
 
From Downtown Norfolk, turn left onto 49th Street. From the Naval Base, turn right onto 49th Street. Continue down 49th Street and turn left into the last parking lot (Lot 49) before Powhatan Avenue. You will see blue dumpsters in the lot. The reserved space for Student Health Services (SHS) will be on the right. Park in that space. We are located on the 1st floor of the Student Recreation and Wellbeing Center, Suite 1402. It’s easier to enter through the front of the building. See the map for the office location in proximity to your parking. If getting to our office from the parking lot seems confusing, feel free to call the office at 757-683-3132 (press 3) and we’ll be happy to meet you at the parking space to escort you to our Suite.
 
Failure to follow time restrictions on parking (for the duration of the appointment only) will result in the vehicle being towed at the student's expense.







Free Flu Shots





Student Health Services is offering self-scheduling flu appointments for students. Schedule an appointment using the online Monarch Wellness Portal or call 757-683-3132.







Sending Medical Records





Health records and immunization documents can be uploaded through the Monarch Wellness Portal (preferred method) or mailed to:
Old Dominion University Student Health Services
4700 Powhatan Avenue, Suite 1402
Norfolk, VA. 23529












Student Health Services


Home


Services


Monarch Wellness Portal


Immunizations


Location & Hours


FAQs


Directory











Contact


Student Health Services



 


          4700 Powhatan Avenue, Suite 1402          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  










757-683-3132
                
        office
            
      






757-683-5930
                
        fax
            
      









Directory






















            Student Health Services
      















                    Services Provided
                  

Services Provided











                    Immunizations
                  

Immunizations











                    Billing & Insurance
                  

Billing & Insurance
























                    Health Promotion
                  

Health Promotion

















                    Sexual Health
                  

Sexual Health










Monarch Wellness Portal


Patient Rights & Responsibilities


FAQs
















            Healthcare Information
          











What is COVID-19?


November 10,  2021





















ODU Hosts Student Recreation & Well-Being Center Open House











Well-Being Services at the SRWC











What is COVID-19?











What is Monkeypox?











































 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















