






















Advanced Engineering - Cyber Systems Security (Graduate Certificate) | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



















Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Programs


                  Advanced Engineering - Cyber Systems Security (Graduate Certificate)
              



Advanced Engineering - Cyber Systems Security (Graduate Certificate)





Program HighlightsCareersCoursesRequirementsCostNext-StepsContact





Request Info




Apply









 

























About this Program

The Advanced Engineering Certificate in Cyber Systems Security provides a thorough understanding of the cyber security threats faced by the stand-alone computer systems, networked systems, IT infrastructure, and cyber physical systems having embedded computer systems operated by individuals, small businesses and large enterprises, along with the knowledge required to defend against these threats. Through class room instruction and hands-on lab work, participants learn state-of-the-art techniques necessary for analyzing cyber security risks, and preventing, detecting and recovering from cyber attacks. The program makes use of ODU's multidisciplinary strengths in the fields of Cyber Systems, Computer Engineering, Software Engineering and Modeling and Simulation.




Program Highlights


This program is designed both as a complement for students working on graduate degrees and for those personnel working on information and cyber systems used in industry, small businesses, healthcare, government, military and home land security.


Program can be completed in 2 semesters with full-time enrollment, or 2 years with part-time enrollment


This program will teach you to: 
• Model and analyze threats in cyber/ cyber-physical systems, 
• Detect emerging threats and mitigation techniques, 
• Assess vulnerability of software and hardware 
• Apply big data analytics to detect anomalies and eliminate security threats, 
• Design network simulation/emulation 
Find a complete list engineering certificate programs.








 




Available In-Person and Online




            At a Glance
          


        Batten College of Engineering & Technology
      



        Electrical & Computer Engineering
      


Degree Level

        Graduate
            


Degree Earned

        Certificate
            


Delivery Modes












Online















          On-Campus
      


















            Careers
          


Check out these ideas from ODU Career Development Services and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.














Computer Systems Analysts






            $92,740
      
Median Salary




Analyze science, engineering, business, and other data processing problems to implement and improve computer systems. Analyze user requirements, procedures, and problems to automate or improve existing systems and review computer system capabilities, workflow, and scheduling limitations. May analyze or recommend commercially available software.








Information Security Analysts






            $99,690
      
Median Salary




Plan, implement, upgrade, or monitor security measures for the protection of computer networks and information. May ensure appropriate security controls are in place that will safeguard digital files and vital electronic infrastructure. May respond to computer security breaches and viruses.



































            Requirements
          
What are the requirements to apply for Advanced Engineering - Cyber Systems Security at ODU?
Students entering the Certificate program in Advanced Engineering - Cyber Systems Security should meet the minimum university admission requirements Graduate Admission.


All applicants admitted to the certificate program must have earned a baccalaureate degree in engineering, mathematics, science, or a related STEM field from a regionally-accredited institution or an equivalent degree from a foreign institution. Those whose native language is not English must submit a minimum score of 230 on the computer-based TOEFL or 80 on the TOEFL iBT.




More Program and Degree Requirements





















Featured Courses









        MSIM 570
            




View full course description for 
Foundations of Cyber Security



                  Course provides an overview of theory, tools and practice of cyber security and information assurance through…
              











        MSIM 570
            



Foundations of Cyber Security





Course provides an overview of theory, tools and practice of cyber security and information assurance through prevention, detection and modeling of cyber attacks and recovery from such attacks. Techniques for security modeling, attack modeling, risk analysis and cost-benefit analysis are described to manage the security of cyber systems. Fundamental principles of cyber security and their applications for protecting software and information assets of individual computers and large networked systems are explored. Anatomy of some sample attacks designed to compromise confidentiality, integrity and availability of cyber systems are discussed. Prerequisites: CS 150 or ENGN 150.


















        MSIM 670
            




View full course description for 
Cyber Systems Engineering



                  This course provides an overview of functioning of cyber systems including how a computer interacts with the outside…
              











        MSIM 670
            



Cyber Systems Engineering





This course provides an overview of functioning of cyber systems including how a computer interacts with the outside world. The composition of critical infrastructure and functioning of different engineered systems that form critical infrastructure are discussed. Mutual dependence and interactions between cyber systems and other engineered systems and the resulting security risks are also explored. (Cross-listed with ENMA 670.)


















        ECE 516
            




View full course description for 
Cyber Defense Fundamentals



                  This course focuses on cybersecurity theory, information protection and assurance, and computer systems and networks…
              











        ECE 516
            



Cyber Defense Fundamentals





This course focuses on cybersecurity theory, information protection and assurance, and computer systems and networks security. The objectives are to understand the basic security models and concepts, learn fundamental knowledge and tools for building, analyzing, and attacking modern security systems, and gain hands-on experience in cryptographic algorithms, security fundamental principles, and Internet security protocol and standards. (Offered fall) Prerequisites: Permission of the instructor. Pre- or corequisite: ECE 355.
















Full Course Catalog














        Cost
            




Estimated rates for the 2023-24 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.






Virginia Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$599





Technology Delivered Courses Outside Virginia and/or the United States

Cost Per-Credit
$623





Non-Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$1,439







Ways to Save
Here are a few ways for you to save on the cost of attending ODU. For more information visit University Student Financial aid






Cost Estimator











        Next Steps
            














        Explore Community
            




















        Request Information
            




















        Virtual Tour
            




















        Visit Campus
            



















Contact


















Sachin Shetty


                  Professor & Executive Director Csics
                


757-686-6233


sshetty@odu.edu



          VMASC 1030 UNIVERSITY BLVD          
        SUFFOLK,            23435
  




















Contact



Graduate Admissions



 
          1000 Rollins Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3685
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3255
                
        fax
            
      








gradadmit@odu.edu

















Contact



International Admissions



 
          2101 Dragas Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3701
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3651
                
        fax
            
      








intladm@odu.edu


























Additional Programs
Are there other programs at ODU I may be interested in?
With over 120 undergraduate programs, 130 graduate programs at the master's, education specialist and doctoral levels plus a wealth of certificate and professional development programs, Old Dominion University has the program for you. Visit our academic program listing page to see other programs ODU has to offer.






























 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















