






















Health & Sport Pedagogy - Human Movement Sciences (Education, Ph.D.) | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



















Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Programs


                  Health & Sport Pedagogy - Human Movement Sciences (Education, Ph.D.)
              



Health & Sport Pedagogy - Human Movement Sciences (Education, Ph.D.)





Program HighlightsCareersCoursesRequirementsCostNext-StepsContact





Request Info




Apply









 

























About this Program

The doctoral program in Health & Sport Pedagogy focuses on research, scholarship, and leadership opportunities that prepare individuals for academic positions in departments of physical education/ kinesiology at universities and colleges. This is a research-focused program, which positions graduating students to engage in empirical research and contribute to knowledge generation in the field. Students may focus on research in their personal areas of interest within the fields of health, physical education, and/or adapted physical education.




Program Highlights


Intensive research opportunities focusing on physical education, physical activity, and health-related content for youth and adults populations, including those with disabilities


Award winning faculty members provide mentoring in the areas of research, teaching, service, and scholarship


Students are encouraged to engage in national and international organizations through service and the presentation and publication of empirical data


Courses based on current empirical research encourage students to think critically about the fields of physical education, physical activity, and adapted physical education










            AT A GLANCE
          


        Darden College of Education & Professional Studies
      



        Department of Human Movement Studies & Special Education
      


Degree Level

        Graduate
            


Degree Earned

        Doctor of Philosophy
            


Concentration

        Human Movement Sciences
            


Delivery Modes












          On-Campus
      


















            Careers
          


Check out these ideas from ODU Career Development Services and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.














Health Specialties Teachers, Postsecondary






            $122,890
      
Median Salary




Teach courses in health specialties, in fields such as dentistry, laboratory technology, medicine, pharmacy, public health, therapy, and veterinary medicine.








Instructional Coordinators






            $66,680
      
Median Salary




Develop instructional material, coordinate educational content, and incorporate current technology in specialized fields that provide guidelines to educators and instructors for developing curricula and conducting courses. Includes educational consultants and specialists, and instructional material directors.








Recreation and Fitness Studies Teachers, Postsecondary






            $69,560
      
Median Salary




Teach courses pertaining to recreation, leisure, and fitness studies, including exercise physiology and facilities management. Includes both teachers primarily engaged in teaching and those who do a combination of teaching and research.








Education Administrators, Elementary and Secondary School






            $97,440
      
Median Salary




Plan, direct, or coordinate the academic, administrative, or auxiliary activities of public or private elementary or secondary level schools.


































Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for Health & Sport Pedagogy at ODU?
Students entering the Doctor of Philosophy program in Health & Sport Pedagogy should meet the minimum university admission requirements Graduate Admission.


An application to the University.


Official transcripts of all undergraduate and graduate courses and degrees complete.


One writing sample. 


A current copy of your resume or Curriculum Vitae.


Three letters of recommendation from professional sources qualified to assess your suitability for study at the doctoral level. One letter of recommendation should be from a graduate advisor or faculty member and one should be from a current or former supervisor.




More Program and Degree Requirements





For Admission to the Health & Sport Pedagogy Program





        GRE
            



Official GRE scores taken within the last 5 years that indicate a total score of at least 297 (1000 by former scoring standard) for both the verbal reasoning and quantitative reasoning sections and a minimum of 4.0 on the analytical writing component. While these scores are recommended, other portions of the total application package will be considered. The Sport and Recreation Management emphasis area will also accept GMAT scores of 470 or higher. 








        TOEFL
            



Applicants whose native language is not English must also submit current scores for the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) of at least 550.








        Note
            



Potential students are encouraged to make contact with either Dr. Justin Haegele (jhaegele@odu.edu) or Dr. Xihe Zhu (x2zhu@odu.edu) prior to submitting their application to determine if there is alignment in research areas of interest. 

























Featured Courses









        HPE 804
            




View full course description for 
Advanced Studies in Adapted Physical Education



                  This course provides experiences of teaching adapted physical education content in lecture and gymnasium settings.…
              











        HPE 804
            



Advanced Studies in Adapted Physical Education





This course provides experiences of teaching adapted physical education content in lecture and gymnasium settings. Students will develop an understanding of a broad spectrum of disability related content that is applicable to physical education, and gain a deep knowledge of specific topics within disability studies. General and disability specific teaching strategies will be discussed.


















        HPE 845
            




View full course description for 
Assessment/Evaluation and Technology in Sport/PE



                  This course covers assessment/evaluation theory and practices in PE/Sport. Multiple evaluation designs and techniques…
              











        HPE 845
            



Assessment/Evaluation and Technology in Sport/PE





This course covers assessment/evaluation theory and practices in PE/Sport. Multiple evaluation designs and techniques in different domains such as teaching/coaching, learning, and performance will be discussed along with technology applications in PE/Sport.


















        HPE 840
            




View full course description for 
Motor Learning and Development



                  This course covers a combination of motor development and motor learning topics. The course information and structure…
              











        HPE 840
            



Motor Learning and Development





This course covers a combination of motor development and motor learning topics. The course information and structure are designed to optimize practitioners' effectiveness in the classroom and on the field via practical application of motor behavior theories, concepts and principles. Attention is directed toward understanding the acquisition of skills from the fundamental, initial level to the sport-specific, more advanced level, toward optimal age and skill-level practices and developing appropriate motor skill assessments for infants through older adulthood. Past and current research findings are incorporated into each of the course topics.
















Full Course Catalog














        Cost
            




Estimated rates for the 2023-24 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.






Virginia Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$599





Technology Delivered Courses Outside Virginia and/or the United States

Cost Per-Credit
$623





Non-Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$1,439







Ways to Save
Here are a few ways for you to save on the cost of attending ODU. For more information visit University Student Financial aid






Cost Estimator








            Graduate Assistantships
      


Competitive graduate assistantships, with a tuition waiver, are available for select qualified fulltime students. 






            Dissertation Fellowship
      


Students may apply for a competitive college-wide dissertation fellowship during the dissertation phase. 













        Next Steps
            














        Explore Community
            




















        Request Information
            




















        Virtual Tour
            




















        Visit Campus
            



















Contact


















Justin Haegele


                  Professor
                


757-683-5338


jhaegele@odu.edu



          2009 STUDENT RECREATION CTR          
        NORFOLK,            23529
  




















Xihe Zhu


                  Professor & Chair
                


757-683-3545


x2zhu@odu.edu



          2010 STUDENT RECREATION CTR          
        NORFOLK,            23529
  




















Contact



Graduate Admissions



 
          1000 Rollins Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3685
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3255
                
        fax
            
      








gradadmit@odu.edu

















Contact



International Admissions



 
          2101 Dragas Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3701
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3651
                
        fax
            
      








intladm@odu.edu


























Additional Programs
Are there other programs at ODU I may be interested in?
With over 120 undergraduate programs, 130 graduate programs at the master's, education specialist and doctoral levels plus a wealth of certificate and professional development programs, Old Dominion University has the program for you. Visit our academic program listing page to see other programs ODU has to offer.






























 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















