






















Cybersecurity (Graduate Certificate) | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



















Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Programs


                  Cybersecurity (Graduate Certificate)
              



Cybersecurity (Graduate Certificate)





Program HighlightsCareersCoursesRequirementsCostNext-StepsContact





Request Info




Apply









 

























About this Program

This online certificate program is designed to train professionals working in computer science and related fields the additional skills needed to manage and secure cyber data. You can complete this certificate in as little as one year by taking two courses in spring semester and two courses in fall semester. These courses can also apply toward ODU's Master of Science in Computer Science.




Program Highlights


Can be completed in one year: 12 credit hours (four courses)


Complete as full or part-time student


Flexibility to do it online


Friendly to non-CS major students








 




Available In-Person and Online




            AT A GLANCE
          


        College of Sciences
      



        Computer Science
      


Degree Level

        Graduate
            


Degree Earned

        Certificate
            


Delivery Modes












Online



















            Careers
          


Check out these ideas from ODU Career Development Services and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.














Information Security Analysts






            $99,690
      
Median Salary




Plan, implement, upgrade, or monitor security measures for the protection of computer networks and information. May ensure appropriate security controls are in place that will safeguard digital files and vital electronic infrastructure. May respond to computer security breaches and viruses.








Network and Computer Systems Administrators






            $86,340
      
Median Salary




Install, configure, and support an organization's local area network (LAN), wide area network (WAN), and Internet systems or a segment of a network system. Monitor network to ensure network availability to all system users and may perform necessary maintenance to support network availability. May monitor and test Web site performance to ensure Web sites operate correctly and without interruption. May assist in network modeling, analysis, planning, and coordination between network and data communications hardware and software. May supervise computer user support specialists and computer network support specialists. May administer network security measures.








Computer Systems Analysts






            $92,740
      
Median Salary




Analyze science, engineering, business, and other data processing problems to implement and improve computer systems. Analyze user requirements, procedures, and problems to automate or improve existing systems and review computer system capabilities, workflow, and scheduling limitations. May analyze or recommend commercially available software.








Database Administrators






            $89,050
      
Median Salary




Administer, test, and implement computer databases, applying knowledge of database management systems. Coordinate changes to computer databases. May plan, coordinate, and implement security measures to safeguard computer databases.


































Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for Cybersecurity at ODU?
Students entering the Certificate program in Cybersecurity should meet the minimum university admission requirements Graduate Admission.


Candidates for the program must at least have a 4-year Bachelor’s degree from an accredited academic institution. The program requires a student to take four (or 12 credits) courses. Each course has a normal letter grade and a student is expected to obtain a C or better in each course and maintain a 3.0 GPA. Everyone is required to take one required course CS 562. Students can choose any three of the remaining courses of CS 563, 564, 565, 569. The courses offered under this program may be taken by current ODU students or new students. A student must first apply to the certificate program and be admitted to the program to be eligible to receive the certificate. A student admitted to this program may subsequently apply for MS in CS. If admitted, the courses taken during the certificate program may be considered towards the MS program.




More Program and Degree Requirements





For Admission to the Cybersecurity Program





        Non-Degree Seeking
            



Apply online 








        Degree-Seeking
            



1. Complete the Graduate Certificate Declaration Form.  2. Form is submitted to Graduate Admissions. 3. Admissions contacts the Certificate Coordinator to seek a review.  4. Certificate Coordinator reviews student information to determine admission into the program (ideally within 1-2 days).  5. Certificate Coordinator sends admission decision to Graduate Admissions.  6. If admitted, certificate program will be placed in the student's DegreeWorks under the drop-down Degree tab.  7. Graduate Admissions notifies student of decision.  8. Certificate Coordinator follows up with student.








        Notification of Completion
            



Students who finish the requirements of the certificate program should submit the Notification of Completion - Certificate Program Form to the Certificate Coordinator.

























Featured Courses









        CS 562
            




View full course description for 
Cybersecurity Fundamentals



                  Introduction to networking and the Internet protocol stack; Vulnerable protocols such as HTTP, DNS, and BGP; Overview…
              











        CS 562
            



Cybersecurity Fundamentals





Introduction to networking and the Internet protocol stack; Vulnerable protocols such as HTTP, DNS, and BGP; Overview of wireless communications, vulnerabilities, and security protocols; Introduction to cryptography; Discussion of cyber threats and defenses; Firewalls and IDS/IPS; Kerberos; Transport Layer Security, including certificates; Network Layer Security.


















        CS 563
            




View full course description for 
Cryptography for Cybersecurity



                  This course covers mathematical foundations, including information theory, number theory, factoring, and prime number…
              











        CS 563
            



Cryptography for Cybersecurity





This course covers mathematical foundations, including information theory, number theory, factoring, and prime number generation; cryptographic protocols, including basic building blocks and protocols; cryptographic techniques, including key generation and key management, and applications; and cryptographic algorithms--DES, AES, stream ciphers, hash functions, digital signatures, etc. Prerequisites: MATH 162M.


















        CS 564
            




View full course description for 
Networked Systems Security



                  Authentication in cyber systems including password-based, address-based, biometrics-based, and SSO systems;…
              











        CS 564
            



Networked Systems Security





Authentication in cyber systems including password-based, address-based, biometrics-based, and SSO systems; Authorization and accounting in cyber systems; Securing wired and wireless networks; Secured applications including secure e-mail services, secure web services, and secure e-commerce applications; Security and privacy in cloud environments.
















Full Course Catalog














        Cost
            




Estimated rates for the 2023-24 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.






Virginia Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$599





Technology Delivered Courses Outside Virginia and/or the United States

Cost Per-Credit
$623





Non-Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$1,439







Ways to Save
Here are a few ways for you to save on the cost of attending ODU. For more information visit University Student Financial aid






Cost Estimator











        Next Steps
            














        Explore Community
            




















        Request Information
            




















        Virtual Tour
            




















        Visit Campus
            



















Contact


















Ravi Mukkamala


                  Professor & Chair
                


757-683-7724


rmukkama@odu.edu



          4700 ELKHORN AVE SUITE 3300          
        NORFOLK,            23529
  




















Shuai Hao


                  Cybersecurity Certificate Program Coordinator
                


757-683-7798


shao@odu.edu



          3111 ENGR & COMP SCI BLDG          
        NORFOLK,            23529
  




















Contact



Graduate Admissions



 
          1000 Rollins Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3685
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3255
                
        fax
            
      








gradadmit@odu.edu

















Contact



International Admissions



 
          2101 Dragas Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3701
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3651
                
        fax
            
      








intladm@odu.edu
































        Related Programs
            



Computer Science (M.S.)


Computer Information Sciences (Computer Science, M.S.)






































 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















