






















Aerospace Engineering (Engineering, Ph.D.) | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



















Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Programs


                  Aerospace Engineering (Engineering, Ph.D.)
              



Aerospace Engineering (Engineering, Ph.D.)





Program HighlightsCareersCoursesRequirementsCostNext-StepsContact





Request Info




Apply









 

























About this Program

The Doctor of Philosophy programs in Aerospace Engineering are advanced research degrees requiring a written dissertation offering new and unique contributions of a fundamental nature. Graduates are prepared for leadership roles in the many facets of engineering including teaching, research and development, design, and consulting.




Program Highlights


The University’s close associations with area industries, consulting firms, government agencies, and research laboratories create a stimulating environment for the pursuit of graduate studies


Students may select specializations in such technical areas as: aerodynamics and fluids, thermodynamics and energy, dynamics and controls, materials and structures, design and manufacturing










            AT A GLANCE
          


        Batten College of Engineering & Technology
      



        Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering
      


Degree Level

        Graduate
            


Degree Earned

        Doctor of Philosophy
            


Concentration

        Aerospace Engineering
            


Delivery Modes












          On-Campus
      


















            Careers
          


Check out these ideas from ODU Career Development Services and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.














Aerospace Engineering and Operations Technicians






            $71,340
      
Median Salary




Operate, install, calibrate, and maintain integrated computer/communications systems, consoles, simulators, and other data acquisition, test, and measurement instruments and equipment, which are used to launch, track, position, and evaluate air and space vehicles. May record and interpret test data.








Aircraft Structure, Surfaces, Rigging, and Systems Assemblers






            $55,400
      
Median Salary




Assemble, fit, fasten, and install parts of airplanes, space vehicles, or missiles, such as tails, wings, fuselage, bulkheads, stabilizers, landing gear, rigging and control equipment, or heating and ventilating systems.








Aviation Inspectors






            $73,720
      
Median Salary




Inspect aircraft, maintenance procedures, air navigational aids, air traffic controls, and communications equipment to ensure conformance with Federal safety regulations.








Aerospace Engineers






            $115,300
      
Median Salary




Perform engineering duties in designing, constructing, and testing aircraft, missiles, and spacecraft. May conduct basic and applied research to evaluate adaptability of materials and equipment to aircraft design and manufacture. May recommend improvements in testing equipment and techniques.


































Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for Aerospace Engineering at ODU?
Students entering the Doctor of Philosophy program in Aerospace Engineering should meet the minimum university admission requirements Graduate Admission.


For admission as a regular student, the applicant must have earned a Master's degree from an accredited institution in either aerospace engineering, engineering mechanics, mechanical engineering, a related branch of engineering or a closely related field, such as physics or mathematics.
For those applicants with degrees in fields other than aerospace engineering, mechanical engineering or engineering mechanics, previous course work should include the subject matter considered prerequisite for the doctoral program in either aerospace engineering or engineering mechanics. In other cases, a remedial study plan may be designed by the GPD upon the applicant's request.




A minimum grade point average (GPA) of 3.5 on a 4.00 scale at the Master's level may be admitted as a regular graduate student


An applicant with a GPA of a least 3.25 and who shows evidence of improvement may be admitted as a provisional student. Students are transferred to regular status following completion of twelve semester hours of course work with a GPA of at least 3.00


GRE Scores. The GPD may waive the GRE requirement for applicants with Master's degrees in AE, EM or ME from ODU, or for applicants with exceptional academic achievements


TOEFL scores if applicable. A minimal score of 550 is required


International students must also submit a statement of adequate financial resources to cover their educational expenses. This requirement is satisfied if the Department offers financial aid through teaching or research assistantships, fellowships, etc




More Program and Degree Requirements





















Featured Courses









        MAE 506
            




View full course description for 
Flight Vehicle Aerodynamics



                  Inviscid flow concepts including: Euler equations, stream function, velocity potential, singularities, vorticity and…
              











        MAE 506
            



Flight Vehicle Aerodynamics





Inviscid flow concepts including: Euler equations, stream function, velocity potential, singularities, vorticity and circulation laws. Viscous flow topics including boundary layers separation, and turbulent flow. In addition, external flows, lift and drag, thin airfoil theory, finite wing theory and airfoil design will be discussed. Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in MAE 303; MAE 312 and MAE 340.


















        MAE 531
            




View full course description for 
Mechanisms Analysis and Design



                  Basic relations necessary for analysis of plane motion mechanisms, numerical and analytical solutions for some of the…
              











        MAE 531
            



Mechanisms Analysis and Design





Basic relations necessary for analysis of plane motion mechanisms, numerical and analytical solutions for some of the basic mechanisms, methods of calculating rolling and sliding velocities and accelerations of contacting bodies, cams, and gears. Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in MAE 205, a grade of C or better in MAE 332, and MATH 312 or MATH 285.


















        MAE 517
            




View full course description for 
Propulsion Systems



                  Basic principles of design, operation and performance of propulsion systems - including turbojet, turboprop, turbofan,…
              











        MAE 517
            



Propulsion Systems





Basic principles of design, operation and performance of propulsion systems - including turbojet, turboprop, turbofan, and ramjet engines. Introduction to chemical rockets, ion and plasma thrusters. Prerequisite: MAE 312 or MAE 414.
















Full Course Catalog














        Cost
            




Estimated rates for the 2023-24 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.






Virginia Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$599





Technology Delivered Courses Outside Virginia and/or the United States

Cost Per-Credit
$623





Non-Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$1,439







Ways to Save
Here are a few ways for you to save on the cost of attending ODU. For more information visit University Student Financial aid






Cost Estimator











        Next Steps
            














        Explore Community
            




















        Request Information
            




















        Virtual Tour
            




















        Visit Campus
            



















Contact


















Miltos Kotinis


                  Assoc Prof & Interim Chair
                


757-683-5939


mkotinis@odu.edu



          241J KAUFMAN HALL          
        NORFOLK,            23529
  




















Contact



Graduate Admissions



 
          1000 Rollins Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3685
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3255
                
        fax
            
      








gradadmit@odu.edu

















Contact



International Admissions



 
          2101 Dragas Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3701
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3651
                
        fax
            
      








intladm@odu.edu
































        Related Programs
            



Engineering Management (M.E.M.)


Engineering Management (M.S.)






































 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















