
























Five Education Alumni Named as 2024 Darden Fellows | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 




















Breadcrumb


Home


News Center


                  Five Education Alumni Named as 2024 Darden Fellows 
              



Five Education Alumni Named as 2024 Darden Fellows 














 February 29, 2024
            

share


















 



























By Kenya Godette
Five alumni from Old Dominion University’s Darden College of Education and Professional Studies were honored as Darden Fellows during a luncheon held on Feb. 20 in the multipurpose room of the Education Building.
A longstanding tradition, fellows are nominated annually by faculty in each of the College’s departments. Selected from a pool of 42,000 Darden alumni, awardees are recognized for significant contributions to their professional fields and for exemplifying service and excellence in their communities.
“I look forward to seeing more of your accomplishments and I hope you know that you are an inspiration to current and future students – to follow their passions, make meaningful differences and ultimately better the world,” said Tammi Dice, dean of the Darden College.
Beyond personal achievement and community service, Darden Fellows also highlight the impact that ODU’s education alumni continue to make in Hampton Roads and beyond.
This year’s Darden Fellows are:
Traci Richards
Ph.D. in counseling (2017)
Senior Manager at Chesapeake Regional Hospital
As senior manager for Chesapeake Regional Hospital, Richards’ is responsible for developing and supervising mental health programs for vulnerable patient populations and for designing and overseeing an integrated behavioral health training site for future practitioners. She is also the owner of Iliad Counseling Services LLC, which allows her to further address mental health and substance abuse in the region. She is a valued adjunct instructor and clinical supervisor in ODU’s training programs, serves on the board of directors of the Tidewater Emergency Medical Services Council and is a specialist in trauma and crisis intervention for the Western Tidewater Medical Reserve Corps. She is also a past recipient of Chesapeake Regional Healthcare’s Beacon and Luminary awards.
Kyle Williams
M.S. in educational leadership (2009)
Special Advisor to the AVP for Belonging, Engagement and Community and Dean of Students at Emory University
Williams’ primary professional goal is to support the success of historically marginalized and vulnerable students in higher education. Prior to joining Emory University in 2022, he served as dean of students at Oglethorpe University, where he helped to expand the Campus Life Team and created equitable and inclusive practices for the Office of Student Rights and Responsibilities. Before that, he served as assistant director of Student Conduct and Community Standards at Washington University in St. Louis, co-director of the Minority Males Matter Initiative and area coordinator at Texas A&M University-Commerce and Residence Hall Director for the Sophomore Year Experience at The College of New Jersey.
Gregg Motinger
B.S. in physical education (2007)
Assistant Principal at Norview High School
As assistant principal at Norview High School, Motinger has been instrumental in helping the school become fully accredited with the Virginia Department of Education, achieve Cognia Accreditation and be named one of U.S. News & World Report’s best high schools in the country. In this role, he has also worked with “Project Graduation” targeting at-risk seniors, collaborated to maintain excellence in the Leadership Center for Education in Science and Education and integrated a Positive Behavioral Intervention and Supports program. When he is not at Norview, Motinger regularly participates as a lecturer for ODU’s Summer Leadership Conference, serving on the planning committee and mentoring ODU student teachers. He remains active in the community as a member of the Norfolk Parks and Recreation Commission, director of the Beach FC Jr. Academy Soccer Club and coaching instructor for U.S. Youth Soccer.
Jennifer Scott Brown (not pictured above)
Ph.D. with a concentration in instructional design and technology (2017)
Director of Augusta County Library
Weaving library science with instructional design, Scott Brown advocates for the development of informal learning opportunities, trains staff through coaching and apprenticeship and identifies community needs in her role as director of the Augusta County Library. Her reach extends into the community, where she currently serves as the chair of the Virginia Library Leadership Academy, developing library leadership across the state. She also is the current president-elect for the Virginia Public Library Directors Association, has been an adjunct assistant professor in Library and Information Studies at Old Dominion University since 2018 and has served on the program's advisory board since 2019.
Thomas Smigiel
B.S. in education and interdisciplinary studies (4th-8th grade Science & Social Studies) (2000)
City Councilman and Principal of Granby High School
A lifelong resident of Norfolk, Smigiel is the principal of Granby High School and was elected to the Norfolk City Council in 2010. As a school administrator, he has helped teachers increase their pedagogical content knowledge, motivated students to realize their potential, built a strong and inclusive school culture and increased parental and community involvement. Smigiel previously served as assistant principal at both Granby and Lake Taylor high schools, was chosen as a planning specialist to develop a new citywide lottery specialty program at the former Lafayette-Winona Middle School and championed the International Baccalaureate Middle Years Program at the Academy for Discovery at Lakewood, which was later recognized by the Virginia Department of Education as an Exemplar School for Continuous Improvement and a Purple Star School Award. Apart from his political designation as councilman, Smigiel has made an impact in his community as the 100th president of the Virginia Municipal League from 2019 to 2020. Currently, Smigiel co-chairs the East Little Creek Road Task Force and the Mayor's Ocean View Task Force.





























 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 

























