






















Professional Communication (Communication, B.S.) | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



















Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Programs


                  Professional Communication (Communication, B.S.)
              



Professional Communication (Communication, B.S.)





Program HighlightsCareersCoursesRequirementsTransferCostNext-StepsContact





Request Info




Apply









 

























About this Program

Communication is one of the fastest growing majors in the College of Arts and Letters. Our emphasis area of Professional Communication within the Bachelor of program produces creative, culturally aware, highly effective, communicators well suited for the organizational environment. Our student-centered approach is a synthesis of theoretical and applied learning providing a dynamic, conceptual grounding for lifelong learning and career flexibility.




Program Highlights


Our program offers diverse courses that give students interdisciplinary insight and coverage of Communication, Management and Organizational Psychology studies for application in the professional corporate context.








 




Available In-Person and Online




            AT A GLANCE
          


        College of Arts & Letters
      



        Communication & Theatre Arts
      


Degree Level

        Undergraduate
            


Degree Earned

        Bachelor of Science
            


Concentration

        Professional Communication
            


Delivery Modes












Online















          On-Campus
      


















            Careers
          


Check out these ideas from ODU Career Development Services and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.














Meeting, Convention, and Event Planners






            $52,630
      
Median Salary




Coordinate activities of staff, convention personnel, or clients to make arrangements for group meetings, events, or conventions.








Market Research Analysts and Marketing Specialists






            $71,450
      
Median Salary




Research market conditions in local, regional, or national areas, or gather information to determine potential sales of a product or service, or create a marketing campaign. May gather information on competitors, prices, sales, and methods of marketing and distribution.








Public Relations and Fundraising Managers






            $127,690
      
Median Salary




Plan, direct, or coordinate activities designed to create or maintain a favorable public image or raise issue awareness for their organization or client; or if engaged in fundraising, plan, direct, or coordinate activities to solicit and maintain funds for special projects or nonprofit organizations.








Chief Executives






            $196,050
      
Median Salary




Determine and formulate policies and provide overall direction of companies or private and public sector organizations within guidelines set up by a board of directors or similar governing body. Plan, direct, or coordinate operational activities at the highest level of management with the help of subordinate executives and staff managers.

























        Alumni Careers
            








        Atlantic Bay Mortgage Group
            













        Hampton Roads Economic Development Alliance
            













        Meridian Group
            













        Higher Education
            













        US Military
            



























Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for Professional Communication at ODU?
Students entering the Bachelor of Science program in Professional Communication should meet the minimum university admission requirements Undergraduate Admission.


More Program and Degree Requirements








            Transfer
          

At ODU, we understand that as a transfer student you have unique needs that require a wide array of campus resources. The Center for Advising Administration and Academic Partnerships aims to create a transfer inclusive culture that supports the successful...



Transfer Info
























Featured Courses









        COMM 305
            




View full course description for 
Professional Communication



                  An examination of both the theory and practice of communication in the professional setting. Content includes…
              











        COMM 305
            



Professional Communication





An examination of both the theory and practice of communication in the professional setting. Content includes communication theory, as well as the roles of interpersonal, small group, organizational, and mass media communication as related to the workplace. A student receiving credit for COMM 305 cannot receive credit toward the Communication major for COMM 200S. Prerequisites: Junior standing or permission of instructor.


















        COMM 351
            




View full course description for 
Interpersonal Communication in Organizations



                  Focuses on communication theory, research, and applications of a variety of forms of communication in organizational…
              











        COMM 351
            



Interpersonal Communication in Organizations





Focuses on communication theory, research, and applications of a variety of forms of communication in organizational relationships. Topics include superior-subordinate communication, interviewing, and presentations with an emphasis on a diversity of perspectives and types of organizations. Prerequisites: Junior standing and COMM 200S or permission of the instructor.


















        COMM 421
            




View full course description for 
Communication and Conflict Management



                  Focus on theory and research of communication processes in conflict episodes across social and personal relational…
              











        COMM 421
            



Communication and Conflict Management





Focus on theory and research of communication processes in conflict episodes across social and personal relational contexts. Applications of communication approaches to conflict management emphasized. Prerequisites: Junior standing and COMM 200S or permission of the instructor.
















Full Course Catalog














        Cost
            




Estimated rates for the 2023-24 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.






Active Duty Military Rate

Cost Per-Credit
$250





Virginia Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$393





Technology Delivered Courses Outside Virginia and/or the United States

Cost Per-Credit
$407





Non-Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$1,073







Ways to Save
Here are a few ways for you to save on the cost of attending ODU. For more information visit University Student Financial aid






Cost Estimator








            Scholarships
      


The Lee and Bernard Jaffe Family Endowed Scholarship Fund acknowledges excellence in spoken and written communications using the English language. The recipient must be a rising junior or senior with a declared major in English or Communications with a 3.50 grade point average and recommended by the department chair and dean. The Bruce T. and Sarah Bishop Endowed Scholarship was established to assist a full-time student in the College of Arts and Letters who has a cumulative GPA of 3.0 or better, demonstrates financial need, and demonstrates evidence of involvement in student activities. (FAFSA) The Linda H. and Edward Bradley Endowed Scholarship was established to assist an undergraduate student in the College of Arts and Letters with a minimum GPA of 3.0 who is eligible for the Federal Pell grant. (FAFSA) The College of Arts and Letters General Scholarship was established to assist a full-time student in the College of Arts and Letters. The Drewry Family Endowed Scholarship was established in 2004 by William B. Drewry to be given to a declared undergraduate majoring in the College of Arts and Letters. The recipient must be academically average with a grade point average between 2.8 and 3.0. Preference will be given to a student with financial aid. (FAFSA) The R.K.T. “Kit” Larson Scholarship is made possible by an endowment established in memory of Mr. Larson by his friends and colleagues of The Virginian-Pilot newspaper. The scholarship is awarded to a junior or senior with financial need who is enrolled full-time and works on a school, community or University publication. Recipient must be a resident of a Virginia or North Carolina city or county served by The Virginian-Pilot. (FAFSA) The Memorial and Recognition Scholarship Fund is an endowed scholarship that will be awarded to a student with a minimum grade point average of 3.00 and is able to demonstrate involvement in community service. 













        Next Steps
            














        Explore Community
            




















        Request Information
            




















        Virtual Tour
            




















        Visit Campus
            



















Contact


















Fran Hassencahl


                  Associate Professor
                


757-683-3835


fhassenc@odu.edu



          3008 BATTEN ARTS & LETTERS          
        NORFOLK,            23529
  




















Contact



Undergraduate Admissions



 
          1004 Rollins Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3685
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3255
                
        fax
            
      








admissions@odu.edu

















Contact



International Admissions



 
          2101 Dragas Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3701
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3651
                
        fax
            
      








intladm@odu.edu
































        Related Programs
            



English with Teaching Licensure (B.A.)


Management (B.S.B.A.)


Marketing (B.S.B.A.)


Human Services (B.S.)


Psychology (B.S.)






































 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















