






















Creative Writing (M.F.A.) | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



















Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Programs


                  Creative Writing (M.F.A.)
              



Creative Writing (M.F.A.)





Program HighlightsCareersCoursesRequirementsCostNext-StepsContact





Request Info




Apply









 

























About this Program

As part of the English Department at ODU, the MFA Program began in 1994 with twelve students and three creative writing instructors. It continues to grow with vigor: today, a range of 25-35 students work with the program's talented 7-member creative writing faculty in fiction, poetry, and nonfiction. In addition to taking workshops and craft courses with the MFA faculty, our students take courses with dynamic faculty who have expertise in American, British, and world literature, as well as literary theory, film studies, and rhetoric. In our 54-hour program, students graduate not only as writers but also as individuals competent in literary studies. Our students accomplish a great deal, even while they are in the program: publishing fiction and nonfiction books with major publishers, stories and poems in national literary magazines and journals, articles and reviews in major newspapers, prestigious citations, awards, and grants.




Program Highlights


Opportunities to participate in the MFA Reading Series held at Borjo Coffeehouse in University Village or at similar venues on and around campus


Opportunity to assist in the internationally recognized, annual ODU Literary Festival


Opportunity to present papers or give readings at the spring conference sponsored by the English Department


Writer-in-Residence Program (offered in both the fall and spring semesters) allows MFA students to work one-on-one with nationally renowned poets and writers


Offers valuable volunteer and short-term internship types of experiences Writers-in-Community Program gives creative writing graduate students the chance to facilitate writing workshops in various local venues










            AT A GLANCE
          


        College of Arts & Letters
      



        English
      


Degree Level

        Graduate
            


Degree Earned

        Master of Fine Arts
            


Delivery Modes












          On-Campus
      


















            Careers
          


Check out these ideas from ODU Career Development Services and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.














Editors






            $68,230
      
Median Salary




Plan, coordinate, or edit content of material for publication. May review proposals and drafts for possible publication. Includes technical editors.








Poets, Lyricists and Creative Writers






            $72,120
      
Median Salary




Create original written works, such as scripts, essays, prose, poetry or song lyrics, for publication or performance.








Writers and Authors






            $72,120
      
Median Salary




Originate and prepare written material, such as scripts, stories, advertisements, and other material.








Communications Teachers, Postsecondary






            $75,640
      
Median Salary




Teach courses in communications, such as organizational communications, public relations, radio/television broadcasting, and journalism. Includes both teachers primarily engaged in teaching and those who do a combination of teaching and research.

























        Alumni Careers
            








        The Virginia-Pilot
            













        USA Today
            













        Norfolk Public Schools
            













        NASA
            



























Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for Creative Writing at ODU?
Students entering the Master of Fine Arts program in Creative Writing should meet the minimum university admission requirements Graduate Admission.


The deadline to apply is March 1 for attendance the following fall.




Bachelor’s degree from an accredited institution with at least a 3.0 G.P.A


Submit writing samples in their genre (candidates should note genre on title page of submission)


Three letters of recommendation


Academic transcripts


Personal statement




More Program and Degree Requirements





















Featured Courses









        ENGL 565
            




View full course description for 
AFRICAN AMERICAN LITERATURE



                  An investigation of how African American literature has innovated, influenced, and been influenced by literary…
              











        ENGL 565
            



AFRICAN AMERICAN LITERATURE





An investigation of how African American literature has innovated, influenced, and been influenced by literary movements, historical events, social transitions, and political upheavals.


















        ENGL 660
            




View full course description for 
Craft of Literary Forms



                  A detailed study of the techniques of fiction, nonfiction, and poetry with some emphasis given to the various theories…
              











        ENGL 660
            



Craft of Literary Forms





A detailed study of the techniques of fiction, nonfiction, and poetry with some emphasis given to the various theories informing the genres. Prerequisites: Graduate standing and permission of instructor.


















        ENGL 681
            




View full course description for 
Contemporary Classics: The Thesis Reading List



                  This course offers students enrolled in the MFA in Creative Writing program the opportunity for rigorous study of…
              











        ENGL 681
            



Contemporary Classics: The Thesis Reading List





This course offers students enrolled in the MFA in Creative Writing program the opportunity for rigorous study of contemporary master works in a particular genre. Designed to provide students with the opportunity to deeply investigate contemporary works for the required thesis reading list, this course counts as one of the literature requirements for the MFA degree. The course is best suited for students in the second year of the program; however, any MFA student may register. The course cannot be repeated for credit. Prerequisites: Graduate standing and permission of instructor.
















Full Course Catalog














        Cost
            




Estimated rates for the 2023-24 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.






Virginia Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$599





Technology Delivered Courses Outside Virginia and/or the United States

Cost Per-Credit
$623





Non-Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$1,439







Ways to Save
Here are a few ways for you to save on the cost of attending ODU. For more information visit University Student Financial aid






Cost Estimator








            The Perry Morgan Fellowship
      


The Perry Morgan Fellowship in Creative Writing established in 2005 by Frank Batten and is awarded to two or more first year full-time graduate students enrolled in the creative writing program. Recipients must maintain a minimum 3.5 GPA. 






            The David Scott Sutelan Memorial Scholarship
      


The David Scott Sutelan Memorial Scholarship is made possible by an endowment established by David, Charles and May Scott Sutelan. The recipient will be seeking a Master in Fine Arts in the creative writing program. 






            The Friends of the MFA Program Fellowship
      


The Friends of the MFA Program Scholarship was established for the purpose of helping incoming students to mitigate tuition costs. This scholarship will be distributed annually to an incoming first-year student who isn't receiving any other tuition remission. 













        Next Steps
            














        Explore Community
            




















        Request Information
            




















        Virtual Tour
            




















        Visit Campus
            



















Contact


















Kent Wascom


                  Graduate Program Director
                


757-683-4040


kwascom@odu.edu



          5016 BATTEN ARTS & LETTERS          
        NORFOLK,            23529
  




















Contact



Graduate Admissions



 
          1000 Rollins Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3685
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3255
                
        fax
            
      








gradadmit@odu.edu

















Contact



International Admissions



 
          2101 Dragas Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3701
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3651
                
        fax
            
      








intladm@odu.edu
































        Related Programs
            



English (Ph.D.)






































 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















