






















Teachers of English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL), K-12 with Initial Licensure (Secondary Education) | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



















Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Programs


                  Teachers of English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL), K-12 with Initial Licensure (Secondary Education)
              



Teachers of English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL), K-12 with Initial Licensure (Secondary Education)





Program HighlightsCareersCoursesRequirementsCostNext-StepsContact





Request Info




Apply









 

























About this Program

The master’s program in Secondary Education, Teaching English as a Second Language (TESOL) concentration is for individuals who hold an undergraduate degree and wish to earn a Master of Science in Education degree and qualify for a Virginia Teaching license for grades K-12 in English as a Second Language. The program emphasis is teaching English to speakers of other languages.




Program Highlights


Supervised practicum (at your local school district)


Affordable tuition


NCATE accredited










            AT A GLANCE
          


        Darden College of Education & Professional Studies
      



        Department of Teaching & Learning
      


Degree Level

        Graduate
            


Degree Earned

        Master of Science in Education
            


Delivery Modes












          On-Campus
      


















            Careers
          


Check out these ideas from ODU Career Development Services and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.














Secondary School Teachers, Except Special and Career/Technical Education






            $62,860
      
Median Salary




Teach students in one or more subjects, such as English, mathematics, or social studies at the secondary level in public or private schools. May be designated according to subject matter specialty.








Middle School Teachers, Except Special and Career/Technical Education






            $61,040
      
Median Salary




Teach students in one or more subjects in public or private schools at the middle, intermediate, or junior high level, which falls between elementary and senior high school as defined by applicable laws and regulations.








Adult Basic and Secondary Education and Literacy Teachers and Instructors






            $56,800
      
Median Salary




Teach or instruct out-of-school youths and adults in remedial education classes, preparatory classes for the General Educational Development test, literacy, or English as a Second Language. Teaching may or may not take place in a traditional educational institution.








Elementary School Teachers, Except Special Education






            $60,830
      
Median Salary




Teach students basic academic, social, and other formative skills in public or private schools at the elementary level.

























        Alumni Careers
            








        Norfolk Public Schools
            













        Virginia Beach Public Schools
            













        Chesapeake Public Schools
            



























Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for Secondary Education (TESOL, K-12) with Initial Licensure at ODU?
Students entering the Master of Science in Education program in Secondary Education (TESOL, K-12) with Initial Licensure should meet the minimum university admission requirements Graduate Admission.


An application for graduate studies and official transcripts must be submitted by the appropriate deadline for admission. Under certain circumstances, applicants who do not fully meet the requirements for regular admission to the program may be admitted on a provisional basis subject to conditions specified by the graduate program director. Requirements include:




Earned a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university 


A cumulative undergraduate GPA of 2.80 or higher 


Qualifying ACT, SAT, and/or Praxis testing scores




More Program and Degree Requirements





















Featured Courses









        TLED 608
            




View full course description for 
Foundations of Education and Instructional Assessment



                  Provides students with an understanding of historical, philosophical, economic, and sociological issues in American…
              











        TLED 608
            



Foundations of Education and Instructional Assessment





Provides students with an understanding of historical, philosophical, economic, and sociological issues in American education, their effect on student achievement, and the impact of social change on existing institutions. Includes the development of instruction based on assessment data including the use, construction, interpretation, and analysis of valid assessments. A 30-hour observation/participation experience is required in an appropriate prek-6, 6-8, or 6-12 grade level. Prerequisites: graduate standing.


















        SPED 613
            




View full course description for 
Human Growth and Development



                  This course is designed to give a thorough overview of human development from birth through adolescence and to develop…
              











        SPED 613
            



Human Growth and Development





This course is designed to give a thorough overview of human development from birth through adolescence and to develop an understanding of what impact physical, social, emotional, and intellectual development may have on the student, the learning environment, and instructional decisions. This course provides an advanced overview of current research and theory in human growth and development and their applications to the classroom. Throughout the course, issues of diversity as it applies to economic, social, racial, ethnic, and religious characteristics will be explored; developmental issues related to giftedness or disability and the impact of family disruptions, child abuse, and substance abuse will be addressed within the context of each topic.


















        ENGL 677
            




View full course description for 
Language and Communication Across Cultures



                  This course addresses the connections between language and culture both in terms of the ways in which language may…
              











        ENGL 677
            



Language and Communication Across Cultures





This course addresses the connections between language and culture both in terms of the ways in which language may encode aspects of culture similarly or differently as well as how cultural assumptions are often made based on linguistic differences across cultures. Readings and discussions also address the effects of culture on intercultural communication.




























        Cost
            




Estimated rates for the 2023-24 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.






Virginia Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$599





Technology Delivered Courses Outside Virginia and/or the United States

Cost Per-Credit
$623





Non-Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$1,439







Ways to Save
Here are a few ways for you to save on the cost of attending ODU. For more information visit University Student Financial aid






Cost Estimator











        Next Steps
            














        Explore Community
            




















        Request Information
            




















        Virtual Tour
            




















        Visit Campus
            



















Contact


















Yonghee Suh


                  Professor
                


757-683-6697


ysuh@odu.edu



          3109 EDUCATION BUILDING          
        NORFOLK,            23529
  




















Contact



Graduate Admissions



 
          1000 Rollins Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3685
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3255
                
        fax
            
      








gradadmit@odu.edu

















Contact



International Admissions



 
          2101 Dragas Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3701
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3651
                
        fax
            
      








intladm@odu.edu
































        Related Programs
            



Licensed Teachers (Secondary Education, M.S.Ed.)


Secondary Education (6-12) with Initial Licensure (Education, M.S.Ed.)


Secondary Education Professional Studies (Graduate Certificate)






































 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















