






















Electrical Engineering (B.S.E.E.) | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



















Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Programs


                  Electrical Engineering (B.S.E.E.)
              



Electrical Engineering (B.S.E.E.)





Program HighlightsCareersCoursesRequirementsTransferCostNext-StepsContact





Request Info




Apply









 

























About this Program

The electrical engineering program provides a solid foundation in networks, linear systems, electronics, electromagnetics, digital systems, and physical electronics. Emphasis is placed on understanding principles through theoretical investigation and experimental verification. Learn device fabrication processes (photolithography, oxidation, diffusion, metallization) and fabricate your own circuits in the clean room.




Program Highlights


The ECE department has research laboratories focusing on Applied Plasma Technology; Cybersecurity, Communications and Networking Innovation; Microelectronics and Thin Film Devices; Medical Imaging, Diagnosis, and Analysis; Power Research; Systems Analysis of Metabolic Physiology; Systems Research; Virginia Institute for Photovoltaics; and Vision Lab


ECE faculty support University centers such as the Applied Research Center, the Frank Reidy Center of Bioelectrics, and the Virginia Modeling, Analysis, and Simulation Center


Additional research facilities in the Hampton Roads area with ECE faculty collaboration include the National Institute of Aerospace, NASA Langley Research Center and Jefferson Lab


Concentration Areas:
Systems & Automation Engineering
Physical Electronics
Computer Hardware Systems
Power & Renewable Energy
Data Analytics Engineering
Learn more about the concentration areas    










            AT A GLANCE
          


        Batten College of Engineering & Technology
      



        Electrical & Computer Engineering
      


Degree Level

        Undergraduate
            


Degree Earned

        Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering
            


Delivery Modes












          On-Campus
      


















            Careers
          


Check out these ideas from ODU Career Development Services and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.














Mechanical Engineers






            $91,500
      
Median Salary




Perform engineering duties in planning and designing tools, engines, machines, and other mechanically functioning equipment. Oversee installation, operation, maintenance, and repair of equipment such as centralized heat, gas, water, and steam systems.








Software Developers, Systems Software






            $111,780
      
Median Salary




Research, design, develop, and test operating systems-level software, compilers, and network distribution software for medical, industrial, military, communications, aerospace, business, scientific, and general computing applications. Set operational specifications and formulate and analyze software requirements. May design embedded systems software. Apply principles and techniques of computer science, engineering, and mathematical analysis.








Computer Systems Analysts






            $92,740
      
Median Salary




Analyze science, engineering, business, and other data processing problems to implement and improve computer systems. Analyze user requirements, procedures, and problems to automate or improve existing systems and review computer system capabilities, workflow, and scheduling limitations. May analyze or recommend commercially available software.








Electrical Engineering Technologists






            $64,550
      
Median Salary




Assist electrical engineers in such activities as process control, electrical power distribution, or instrumentation design. May prepare layouts of electrical transmission or distribution systems, supervise the flow of work, estimate project costs, or participate in research studies.

























        Alumni Careers
            








        BAE Careers
            













        Booz Allen Hamilton
            













        General Electric
            













        Huntington Ingalls
            













        Lockheed Martin
            













        NASA
            



























Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for Electrical Engineering at ODU?
Students entering the Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering program in Electrical Engineering should meet the minimum university admission requirements Undergraduate Admission.


The Office of Admissions evaluates and admits freshmen based on high school performance, references and SAT scores. All incoming freshman engineering students are admitted to the Engineering Fundamentals Division


The ECE Department will officially declare a student as an electrical engineering student once the following requirements are met:

Completion of 30 credit hours applicable to your major
Grade of "C" or above in MATH 211 & 212
Completion of Engineering Fundamental courses (Calculus I & II, Calculus-based Physics, Chemistry, and introductory engineering course



The ECE department works closely with local community colleges to develop transfer articulation agreements so that students who complete pre-engineering associate of science degrees can transfer seamlessly




More Program and Degree Requirements








            Transfer
          

At ODU, we understand that as a transfer student you have unique needs that require a wide array of campus resources. The Center for Advising Administration and Academic Partnerships aims to create a transfer inclusive culture that supports the successful...



Transfer Info
























Featured Courses









        ECE 403
            




View full course description for 
Power Electronics



                  Power electronics provides the needed interface between an electrical source and an electrical load and facilitates the…
              











        ECE 403
            



Power Electronics





Power electronics provides the needed interface between an electrical source and an electrical load and facilitates the transfer of power from a source to a load by converting voltages and currents from one form to another. Topics include: alternating voltage rectification, Pulse Width Modulation (PWM), DC converters (Buck, Boost, Buck-Boost, Cuk and SEPIC converters), negative feedback control in power electronics, isolated switching mode power supply, flyback and forward power supply, solid state power switches, AC inverter. (Offered spring) Prerequisites: ECE 303, ECE 313 and a grade of C or better in ECE 202 and ECE 287.


















        ECE 461
            




View full course description for 
Automatic Control Systems



                  Analysis and design of control systems as found in automobiles and aircraft, autonomous vehicles, robots, and many…
              











        ECE 461
            



Automatic Control Systems





Analysis and design of control systems as found in automobiles and aircraft, autonomous vehicles, robots, and many other engineering systems. Time and frequency domain techniques such as root locus, Bode, Nyquist and state space techniques are utilized together with computer-aided analysis and design. (Offered fall) Prerequisites: ECE 302.


















        ECE 473
            




View full course description for 
Solid State Electronics



                  The objective of this course is to understand basic semiconductor devices by understanding semiconductor physics…
              











        ECE 473
            



Solid State Electronics





The objective of this course is to understand basic semiconductor devices by understanding semiconductor physics (energy bands, carrier statistics, recombination and carrier drift and diffusion) and to gain an advanced understanding of the physics and fundamental operation of advanced semiconductor devices. Following the initial introductory chapters on semiconductor physics, this course will focus on the theory of p-n junctions, metal-semiconductor Schottky diodes, MOS capacitors, MOS field effect transistors (MOSFET) and bipolar junction transistors (BJTs). (Offered fall) Prerequisites: ECE 313, ECE 323, ECE 332 and MATH 212.
















Full Course Catalog














        Cost
            




Estimated rates for the 2023-24 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.






Active Duty Military Rate

Cost Per-Credit
$250





Virginia Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$393





Technology Delivered Courses Outside Virginia and/or the United States

Cost Per-Credit
$407





Non-Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$1,073







Ways to Save
Here are a few ways for you to save on the cost of attending ODU. For more information visit University Student Financial aid






Cost Estimator








            Scholarships
      


The Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering maintains updated scholarship information on the Undergraduate Resources webpage. 













        Next Steps
            














        Explore Community
            




















        Request Information
            




















        Virtual Tour
            




















        Visit Campus
            



















Contact


















Vishnu Lakdawala


                  Associate Professor
                


757-748-6744


vlakdawa@odu.edu



          217 KAUFMAN HALL          
        NORFOLK,            23529
  




















Lisa Moser


                  Associate Director for Experiential Learning
                


757-683-4388


lmoser@odu.edu



          2202 WEBB CENTER          
        NORFOLK,            23529
  




















Contact



Undergraduate Admissions



 
          1004 Rollins Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3685
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3255
                
        fax
            
      








admissions@odu.edu

















Contact



International Admissions



 
          2101 Dragas Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3701
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3651
                
        fax
            
      








intladm@odu.edu
































        Related Programs
            



Computer Engineering (B.S.COM.E.)


Physics, Dual Degree in Physics & Electrical Engineering (B.S. & B.S.E.E.)


Electrical and Computer Engineering (Engineering & M.S.)


Electrical and Computer Engineering (Engineering, B.S. & Ph.D.)


Engineering Major (B.S.) and Biomedical Engineering (M.E./M.S.)


Engineering Major (B.S.) and Biomedical Engineering (Ph.D.)





Related Minors

Computer Engineering (Minor)


Biomedical Engineering (Minor)




































 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















