





















Undergraduate Students | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



























 














Breadcrumb


Home


Academic Advising


                  Undergraduate Students
              



Undergraduate Students


























            Academic Planning 
          






Explore Majors





Choosing a major is one of the most definitive decisions a college student can make. Students interested in exploring majors should meet with an advisor/success coach.
Center for Major Exploration & Mane Connect Success Coaching
The Center for Major Exploration advises students who are interested in exploring their major and career options. Advisors assist undecided students in exploring their interests, skills, and abilities as it relates to their majors of interest to help them select the major that will best fit their career goals. The Center for Major Exploration works with students of any classification, including students who are transferring into the University and those that are coming from other departments on campus. Center for Major Exploration advisors also serve as Success Coaches for first year students by equipping them with the skills they will need to successfully navigate their first year of college.







Declare Your Major






College of Arts & Letters
To declare a major in the College of Arts and Letters, you must earn a grade of C or better in ENGL 110C English Composition and complete 26 credit hours. Contact your chosen major department advisor for major declaration.
Strome College of Business
To declare a major in the Strome College of Business, contact the Undergraduate Advising Office directly in person or via email, businessadvising@odu.edu.
School of Cybersecurity
To declare a major in the School of Cybersecurity, you must earn a grade of C or better in ENGL 110C English Composition and complete 30 credit hours. It is highly recommended to have also earned a grade of C or better in Math 162M Precalculus.
Darden College of Education & Professional Studies
To declare your major in the Darden College of Education & Professional Studies, contact your chosen major department advisor.
Batten College of Engineering & Technology
To declare your major in the Batten College of Engineering and Technology, you must meet the following criteria:

Successfully complete ENGN 110 and 111
Earn 30 credit hours applicable to the degree
Have an overall GPA of 2.0 or better
Meet any other specific departmental admissions requirements (such as credit for ENGL 110C, a grade of C or better in MATH 162M and MATH 163 for engineering technology or MATH 211 and MATH 212 for engineering majors; and completed at least PHYS 231N for engineering majors and PHYS 111N for engineering technology majors).

Contact the Engineering Fundamentals Division in room 132 Kaufman Hall or call (757) 683-5877 for more information.
College of Health Sciences
Admission to a major in the College of Health Sciences is managed through a separate application process, apart from admission to the University. Acceptance to the University does not constitute or guarantee acceptance into a health science major.
College of Sciences
The major declaration process in the College of Sciences varies based on the student's intended major.
To declare your major as Biology, you must first complete BIOL 121N/122N, BIOL 123N/124N, and CHEM 121N/122N with a grade of C or better and at least one semester of courses at Old Dominion. Meet with your academic advisor to review your progress for major declaration.
To declare a major in Psychology, see the requirements here.
To declare a major in Chemistry, Computer Science, Mathematics, Ocean, Earth and Atmospheric Sciences or Physics, contact the chief departmental advisor.
Honors College
Admission to the Honors College is competitive and is based upon a selected group of first-year students based upon high school grade point average and curriculum, Scholastic Aptitude Test scores, class rank, and a written personal statement. Transfer students are eligible to apply and are admitted based upon a 3.8 transfer GPA, the ability to complete at least 48 credits towards the ODU degree in residence, and two letters of recommendation from college faculty members.








Curriculum Planning Tools






A four year guided plan of study for degree programs at Old Domminion University.

Articulation Agreements
Curriculum Sheets
DegreeWorks
Finish in 4
GPA Calculator
Placement Scores
Catalog Matrix









Academic Advising





All students who are degree seeking, are assigned to an academic advisor. Meet with your advisor each term to discuss your academics and career goals, your major, course schedule and success plan to stay on track. For a list of all our advising centers and advisors, please see our Undergraduate Advising Directory.







Academic Support






Student Success
Academic Continuance
Academic Resource Center
Tutoring and Academic Support
TriO Programs













Academic Advising


Home


Undergraduate


Graduate


Non-Degree


Resources for Advisors


College Advising Centers


Center for Advising Administration & Academic Partnerships











Contact


Academic Advising



 


          1008 Student Success Center          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  










757-683-3699
                
        office
            
      









advisor@odu.edu







Directory























            First Year Student Success
          


The mission of First Year Student Success is to facilitate the successful college transition and enhance the experience of first year students through personalized and targeted services that aid in student retention.
Our goals are:

To empower students to take responsibility for their academic careers.
To assist students with understanding academic requirements and University expectations.
To support the intellectual engagement and critical thinking of first year students.
To help students develop an awareness and promote the utilization of campus resources.

We accomplish our goals through the following services:
Early Alert Response System (EARS) - After midterm grades are posted we contact freshmen who have earned more than one alert grade (C- or below) and invite them in for a meeting to review coursework, discuss resources and set an academic plan for the remainder of the semester. This outreach is coordinated with Housing and Residence Life so that we are able to reach as many students as possible.
UNIV 110/ACAF 100 - Academic Success - Freshmen who are on Academic Warning (less than a 2.0) after their first semester are required to register for an academic success course/workshop during the spring semester. This program helps students create a success plan, learn study skills and time management strategies, and helps them to make solid decisions in their future academic career.
Peer Advising - A select group of undergraduate students are trained to assist other students in navigating and accessing available resources. The outreach is done in residence halls, academic buildings, the student center as well as the Library.
































 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















