






















Counseling (M.S.Ed.) | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



















Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Programs


                  Counseling (M.S.Ed.)
              



Counseling (M.S.Ed.)





Program HighlightsCareersCoursesRequirementsCostNext-StepsContact





Request Info




Apply









 

























About this Program

This program prepares counselors for professional practice in all settings. The core course work covers a range of counseling and human development issues including approaches to individual and group counseling; ethical and professional issues in counseling; fundamentals of the counseling profession; counseling ethics; measurement and evaluation in counseling; lifespan and career development; research in counseling; and social and cultural issues. In addition, on-campus students select one of two specializations: Clinical Mental Health Counseling or School Counseling; while online students will focus on one specialization: Clinical Mental Health Counseling.  




Program Highlights


Accredited by the Council for the Accreditation of Counseling and Related Programs (CACREP).


Clinical Mental Health specialization graduates meet the educational requirements to pursue the Licensed Professional Counselor (LPC) credential in Virginia.


School Counseling specialization graduates meet requirements for the Virginia Licensed School Counselor credential.


School Counseling specialization graduates who complete electives in diagnosis, addictions, and family dynamics can also meet requirements for both the LPC and the Licensed School Counselor credentials.










            AT A GLANCE
          


        Darden College of Education & Professional Studies
      



        Department of Counseling & Human Services
      


Degree Level

        Graduate
            


Degree Earned

        Master of Science in Education
            


Delivery Modes












          Online
      














          On-Campus
      


















            Careers
          


Check out these ideas from ODU Career Development Services and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.














Educational, Guidance, School, and Vocational Counselors






            $58,620
      
Median Salary




Counsel individuals and provide group educational and vocational guidance services.








Marriage and Family Therapists






            $53,860
      
Median Salary




Diagnose and treat mental and emotional disorders, whether cognitive, affective, or behavioral, within the context of marriage and family systems. Apply psychotherapeutic and family systems theories and techniques in the delivery of services to individuals, couples, and families for the purpose of treating such diagnosed nervous and mental disorders.








Substance Abuse and Behavioral Disorder Counselors






            $48,050 (Approx)
      
Median Salary




Counsel and advise individuals with alcohol, tobacco, drug, or other problems, such as gambling and eating disorders. May counsel individuals, families, or groups or engage in prevention programs.








Mental Health Counselors






            $48,050 (Approx)
      
Median Salary




Counsel with emphasis on prevention. Work with individuals and groups to promote optimum mental and emotional health. May help individuals deal with issues associated with addictions and substance abuse; family, parenting, and marital problems; stress management; self-esteem; and aging.

























        Alumni Careers
            








        Ocean Lakes High School
            













        LGBT Life Center
            













        Norfolk Collegiate School
            













        Optima Health
            



























Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for Counseling at ODU?
Students entering the Master of Science in Education program in Counseling should meet the minimum university admission requirements Graduate Admission.


Applicants may hold a bachelor’s degree in any field and must submit the following:




Online application at the Office of Graduate Admissions website


Current resume


Essay


Official Transcripts


Two Letters of Recommendation




More Program and Degree Requirements





















Featured Courses









        COUN 601
            




View full course description for 
Principles of Professional Counseling and Ethics



                  Aligned with a spiral approach to learning, students will be introduced to theory, practice, methods, basic principles,…
              











        COUN 601
            



Principles of Professional Counseling and Ethics





Aligned with a spiral approach to learning, students will be introduced to theory, practice, methods, basic principles, and concepts used by counselors in educational settings and community agencies. In subsequent courses, these topics will be revisited in depth. The course will emphasize professional and ethical issues related to counseling.


















        COUN 645
            




View full course description for 
Testing and Client Assessment



                  This course examines individual and group approaches to formal and informal assessment techniques, including diagnosis.…
              











        COUN 645
            



Testing and Client Assessment





This course examines individual and group approaches to formal and informal assessment techniques, including diagnosis. It includes an examination of: the history of assessment; basic test statistics; test worthiness (reliability, validity, and cross-cultural issues); the selection, administration, and interpretation of assessment instruments; and ethical and legal issues relative to assessment. The focus of this class is on major concepts and principles of psychological testing and evaluation and use of standardized instruments with differing populations. Pre- or corequisites: COUN 633.


















        COUN 655
            




View full course description for 
Social and Cultural Issues in Counseling



                  Designed to engage helping professionals in cultural self-awareness and the search for solutions to disparities in…
              











        COUN 655
            



Social and Cultural Issues in Counseling





Designed to engage helping professionals in cultural self-awareness and the search for solutions to disparities in society through counseling work. Emphasis on the social identities of gender, race, ethnicity, religion, ability, class, sexual orientation, and age. Prerequisites: Admission to counseling graduate program or graduate program director approval and COUN 601.
















Full Course Catalog














        Cost
            




Estimated rates for the 2023-24 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.






Virginia Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$599





Technology Delivered Courses Outside Virginia and/or the United States

Cost Per-Credit
$623





Non-Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$1,439







Ways to Save
Here are a few ways for you to save on the cost of attending ODU. For more information visit University Student Financial aid






Cost Estimator








            Assistantships
      


Counseling master’s degree students are sometimes awarded assistantships in various ODU offices including Academic Skills, Financial Aid, Office of Intercultural Relations, Resident Life, Student Activities, Student Development, Student Health Services, Student Life, and Vice President of Student Services. Students interesting in obtaining an assistantship should apply directly to offices on campus that have assistantships.













        Next Steps
            














        Explore Community
            




















        Request Information
            




















        Virtual Tour
            




















        Visit Campus
            



















Contact


















Kristy Carlisle


                  Human Services Program Director
                


757-683-6132


kcarlisl@odu.edu



          2133 EDUCATION BUILDING          
        NORFOLK,            23529
  




















Chaniece Winfield


                  Human Services Online Program Director
                


757-683-6987


cwinfiel@odu.edu



          2127  EDUCATION BUILDING          
        NORFOLK,            23529
  




















Contact



Graduate Admissions



 
          1000 Rollins Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3685
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3255
                
        fax
            
      








gradadmit@odu.edu

















Contact



International Admissions



 
          2101 Dragas Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3701
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3651
                
        fax
            
      








intladm@odu.edu
































        Related Programs
            



Counseling (Ed.S.)






































 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















