






















Project Management (Graduate Certificate) | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



















Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Programs


                  Project Management (Graduate Certificate)
              



Project Management (Graduate Certificate)





Program HighlightsCareersCoursesRequirementsCostNext-StepsContact





Request Info




Apply









 

























About this Program

This certificate program addresses the demand from professionals seeking to enhance their project management leadership skills in a variety of technology-focused organizations. The certificate will include concepts, management tools, and processes designed for overseeing projects in the workplace. Several key areas in the certificate are agile project management, the systems approach to planning projects, project monitoring and control, project management evaluation, capital budgeting, and leadership for engineering managers. Graduates will gain skills and knowledge to oversee a wide variety of technology-focused projects in business and industry, military, government, and education. They will be able to oversee projects from launch to completion. They will manage capital budgets that are part of these projects, and apply agile approaches to their work.




Program Highlights


Our online Project Management Certificate includes all concepts, management tools and processes required for project managers who oversee projects in the professional workplace.


Allow students to apply as a non-degree seeking student, which limits students to 12 graduate credit hours.


Non-degree applicants do not need to submit credentials such as transcripts or test scores until completing a degree-seeking application


Provides the core knowledge and meets the required 35 hours of project management education needed to successfully pass the PMP® Exam


The eight-week accelerated format for each course is perfect for working adults with busy schedules and allows you to complete two courses in one regular semester (Spring & Fall).


The asynchronous, online format consists of recorded lectures, live online discussions, course projects (individual and/or group), and tests/assessments








 




Available In-Person and Online




            AT A GLANCE
          


        School of Continuing Education
      



        School of Continuing Education
      


Degree Level

        Graduate
            


Degree Earned

        Certificate
            


Delivery Modes












Online



















            Careers
          


Check out these ideas from ODU Career Development Services and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.














Management Analysts






            $93,440
      
Median Salary




Conduct organizational studies and evaluations, design systems and procedures, conduct work simplification and measurement studies, and prepare operations and procedures manuals to assist management in operating more efficiently and effectively. Includes program analysts and management consultants.








Information Technology Project Managers






            $91,080
      
Median Salary




Plan, initiate, and manage information technology (IT) projects. Lead and guide the work of technical staff. Serve as liaison between business and technical aspects of projects. Plan project stages and assess business implications for each stage. Monitor progress to assure deadlines, standards, and cost targets are met.


































Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for Project Management Certificate at ODU?
Students entering the Certificate program in Project Management Certificate should meet the minimum university admission requirements Graduate Admission.


Non-degree seeking students are required to have these same credentials, though documentation is not required. Ultimately, students must apply to the program in order to obtain the certificate.




More Program and Degree Requirements





















Featured Courses









        ENMA 510
            




View full course description for 
Agile Project Management



                  This course focuses the management of projects using an agile approach to respond to the continuous changes that affect…
              











        ENMA 510
            



Agile Project Management





This course focuses the management of projects using an agile approach to respond to the continuous changes that affect project capabilities and performance. Although any project can be manage using agile project management, projects with high degree of uncertainty obtain the most benefits from this approach (e.g., R&D projects). The course covers Scrum and expands it by articulating the human and business factors that make successful agile project management. Case studies and/or short-projects are required. Prerequisites: ENMA 401 or equivalent.


















        ENMA 604
            




View full course description for 
Project Management



                  Exploration of the systems approach to planning, scheduling, control, design, evaluation, and leadership of projects in…
              











        ENMA 604
            



Project Management





Exploration of the systems approach to planning, scheduling, control, design, evaluation, and leadership of projects in technology-based organizations. The fundamental tools and techniques of project management; role of the project manager; project management systems; project selection; project life cycle; project monitoring and control; project management evaluation and auditing; project risk and failure analysis; contextual nature of project management; project knowledge.


















        ENMA 700
            




View full course description for 
Economic Analysis of Capital Projects



                  This course is targeted at engineering managers who actively participate in the capital budgeting process and project…
              











        ENMA 700
            



Economic Analysis of Capital Projects





This course is targeted at engineering managers who actively participate in the capital budgeting process and project justification. Topics include capital budgeting techniques (including multi-attribute decision making), utility theory, justification of new technologies, and current research in engineering economics. Reading and application of current research in the field is stressed. Case studies are used. Oral presentations and term project required. Prerequisites: ENMA 600.
















Full Course Catalog














        Cost
            




Estimated rates for the 2023-24 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.






Virginia Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$599





Technology Delivered Courses Outside Virginia and/or the United States

Cost Per-Credit
$623





Non-Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$1,439







Ways to Save
Here are a few ways for you to save on the cost of attending ODU. For more information visit University Student Financial aid






Cost Estimator








            Financial Aid for Graduate Students
      


Financial aid is available to graduate students at Old Dominion University. Financial aid may be available in the form of University fellowships, tuition grants, and research assistantships. In addition to the financial aid offered by the University, graduate students may be eligible for aid and student loans administered by other agencies. For information about part-time employment, scholarships, and student loans, contact the Office of Student Financial Aid. 













        Next Steps
            














        Explore Community
            




















        Request Information
            




















        Virtual Tour
            




















        Visit Campus
            



















Contact


















Deborah Avans


                  Business Programs Mgr
                


757-683-5677


davans@odu.edu



          1105 STUDENT SUCCESS CENTER          
        NORFOLK,            23529
  




















Contact



Graduate Admissions



 
          1000 Rollins Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3685
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3255
                
        fax
            
      








gradadmit@odu.edu

















Contact



International Admissions



 
          2101 Dragas Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3701
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3651
                
        fax
            
      








intladm@odu.edu


























Additional Programs
Are there other programs at ODU I may be interested in?
With over 120 undergraduate programs, 130 graduate programs at the master's, education specialist and doctoral levels plus a wealth of certificate and professional development programs, Old Dominion University has the program for you. Visit our academic program listing page to see other programs ODU has to offer.






























 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















