






















Kinesiology & Rehabilitation (Ph.D.) | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



















Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Programs


                  Kinesiology & Rehabilitation (Ph.D.)
              



Kinesiology & Rehabilitation (Ph.D.)





Program HighlightsCareersCoursesRequirementsCostNext-StepsContact





Request Info




Apply









 

























About this Program

The Ph.D. in Kinesiology and Rehabilitation is designed for kinesiologists and rehabilitation professionals (athletic trainers, occupational therapists, physical therapists or speech/language pathologists) who have already completed a master's degree or entry-level clinical doctorate and are interested in becoming leaders, teachers and scholars in their respective fields. The curriculum's core focuses on motor control and motor learning as applied to mobility, rehabilitation, daily functional activities, communication and swallowing in individuals with and without physical or neurologic impairments. In addition to 6 core courses, students will complete research courses, teaching and/or research apprenticeship courses, and at least two electives for a total of at least 51 credit hours.




Program Highlights


Interprofessional and interdisciplinary program which brings together kinesiologists/exercise scientists and different clinical rehabilitation specialists


Students are immersed in research experiences in and out of courses to develop their research skills and products


Students develop award-winning professional oral presentation skills


Small collegial program where all the students get to know and support each other










            AT A GLANCE
          


        College of Health Sciences
      



        Rehabilitation Sciences
      


Degree Level

        Graduate
            


Degree Earned

        Doctor of Philosophy
            


Delivery Modes












          On-Campus
      


















            Careers
          


Check out these ideas from ODU Career Development Services and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.














Biological Scientists, All Other






            $80,200
      
Median Salary




All biological scientists not listed separately.








Health Specialties Teachers, Postsecondary






            $122,890
      
Median Salary




Teach courses in health specialties, in fields such as dentistry, laboratory technology, medicine, pharmacy, public health, therapy, and veterinary medicine.








Recreation and Fitness Studies Teachers, Postsecondary






            $69,560
      
Median Salary




Teach courses pertaining to recreation, leisure, and fitness studies, including exercise physiology and facilities management. Includes both teachers primarily engaged in teaching and those who do a combination of teaching and research.

























        Alumni Careers
            








        The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
            



























Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for Kinesiology & Rehabilitation at ODU?
Students entering the Doctor of Philosophy program in Kinesiology & Rehabilitation should meet the minimum university admission requirements Graduate Admission.


Students are admitted to the Ph.D. program starting with the fall term only. Applications for admission are reviewed by the Ph.D. In Kinesiology and Rehabilitation admissions committee. To qualify for admission, an applicant must meet the general University admission requirements at the graduate level as well as specific program requirements including:  




Completed graduate degree (Master's or Clinical Doctorate) from a regionally-accredited institution in kinesiology, exercise science, athletic training, occupational therapy, physical therapy, speech and language pathology, or a related field


A minimum grade point average (GPA) of 3.25 on a 4.0 scale for the graduate degree


Graduate Record Exam (GRE) scores of at least 150 each in the verbal and quantitative sections of the test, and at least 4 on the written section


Essay on personal goals


Three letters of reference, at least two of which are from former professors familiar with the applicant's academic performance


English Proficiency Requirement for those whose first language is not English. (See Admissions website)




More Program and Degree Requirements





















Featured Courses









        KRS 835
            




View full course description for 
Critical Appraisal and Synthesis of Evidence in Kinesiology and Rehabilitation



                  This course will introduce the student to critical appraisal of all forms of research in kinesiology and…
              











        KRS 835
            



Critical Appraisal and Synthesis of Evidence in Kinesiology and Rehabilitation





This course will introduce the student to critical appraisal of all forms of research in kinesiology and rehabilitation. The purpose of this course is to further develop the student's competence in conducting and evaluating research. The student will develop the skills necessary to find, critically evaluate, and synthesize the available research in order to answer individual research questions or cultivate a line of research inquiry.


















        KRS 851
            




View full course description for 
Motor Performance: Rhythmic/Cyclic Tasks



                  This course will examine the coordination of musculoskeletal and neurological systems in performing rhythmic movement…
              











        KRS 851
            



Motor Performance: Rhythmic/Cyclic Tasks





This course will examine the coordination of musculoskeletal and neurological systems in performing rhythmic movement tasks such as walking, running, swallowing, singing and feeding. Students will gain experience measuring and interpreting kinematics and kinetics of rhythmic movement tasks integrated with measures of activity and participation and clinical standardized tests.


















        KRS 855
            




View full course description for 
Neurosciences of Motor Control



                  This course covers neuroscience with specific regard to the fundamental design, organization and workings of the…
              











        KRS 855
            



Neurosciences of Motor Control





This course covers neuroscience with specific regard to the fundamental design, organization and workings of the central nervous system (CNS) in the areas of motor control. The topics cover areas related to the typical development of motor function and changes in motor control throughout the lifespan. This course also assesses motor-control problems that occur as a result of congenital conditions, acquired damage, dysfunction or disease. Pathological conditions such as (but not limited to) stroke, Parkinson's disease, cerebellar disease, and muscle and joint pathologies are examined.
















Full Course Catalog














        Cost
            




Estimated rates for the 2023-24 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.






Virginia Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$599





Technology Delivered Courses Outside Virginia and/or the United States

Cost Per-Credit
$623





Non-Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$1,439







Ways to Save
Here are a few ways for you to save on the cost of attending ODU. For more information visit University Student Financial aid






Cost Estimator








            Graduate Assistantships
      


Research and teaching graduate assistantships are available to well qualified applicants on a competitive basis. 













        Next Steps
            














        Explore Community
            




















        Request Information
            




















        Virtual Tour
            




















        Visit Campus
            



















Contact


















Ryan McCann


                  Associate Professor
                


757-683-6131


rmccann@odu.edu



          2138B HEALTH SCIENCES BLDG          
        NORFOLK,            23529
  




















Patrick Wilson


                  Associate Professor
                


757-683-4783


pbwilson@odu.edu



          2003A STUDENT RECREATION CTR          
        NORFOLK,            23529
  




















Contact



Graduate Admissions



 
          1000 Rollins Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3685
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3255
                
        fax
            
      








gradadmit@odu.edu

















Contact



International Admissions



 
          2101 Dragas Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3701
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3651
                
        fax
            
      








intladm@odu.edu
































        Related Programs
            



Athletic Training (M.S.A.T.)


Physical Therapy (D.P.T.)


Applied Kinesiology-Human Movement Sciences (Education, Ph.D.)






































 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















