






















German with Teaching Licensure (World Languages & Cultures, B.A.) | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



















Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Programs


                  German with Teaching Licensure (World Languages & Cultures, B.A.)
              



German with Teaching Licensure (World Languages & Cultures, B.A.)





Program HighlightsCareersCoursesRequirementsTransferCostNext-StepsContact





Request Info




Apply









 

























About this Program

The mission of the German with Teaching Licensure program is to prepare students with the knowledge and skills needed to teach German within the Pre-K through Grade 12 environment. This program is designed for prospective teachers and offers a great variety of curricular and extracurricular means to meet your professional goals. With this degree, you will achieve practical and culture-based proficiency in German through studying German literature, philosophy, film, art, and news as well as related fields such as history, politics, economics, and the arts.




Program Highlights


Course content is both literary and more broadly cultural, drawing on fields such as history, philosophy, politics, economics, and the arts


Small discussion-based classes which meet 2-3 times a week


Courses taught in an interactive seminar format with a focus on listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills as well as intercultural competence, which sets students apart on the job market


Instructors are experienced native or near-native German speakers, who are either from Germany or have lived, worked and studied in Germany


Students have access to the Language Learning Center as a resource










            AT A GLANCE
          


        College of Arts & Letters
      



        World Languages & Cultures
      


Degree Level

        Undergraduate
            


Degree Earned

        Bachelor of Arts
            


Delivery Modes












          On-Campus
      


















            Careers
          


Check out these ideas from ODU Career Development Services and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.














Area, Ethnic, and Cultural Studies Teachers, Postsecondary






            $83,330
      
Median Salary




Teach courses pertaining to the culture and development of an area, an ethnic group, or any other group, such as Latin American studies, women's studies, or urban affairs. Includes both teachers primarily engaged in teaching and those who do a combination of teaching and research.








Secondary School Teachers, Except Special and Career/Technical Education






            $62,860
      
Median Salary




Teach students in one or more subjects, such as English, mathematics, or social studies at the secondary level in public or private schools. May be designated according to subject matter specialty.








Middle School Teachers, Except Special and Career/Technical Education






            $61,040
      
Median Salary




Teach students in one or more subjects in public or private schools at the middle, intermediate, or junior high level, which falls between elementary and senior high school as defined by applicable laws and regulations.








Foreign Language and Literature Teachers, Postsecondary






            $75,950
      
Median Salary




Teach languages and literature courses in languages other than English. Includes teachers of American Sign Language (ASL). Includes both teachers primarily engaged in teaching and those who do a combination of teaching and research.


































Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for German with Teaching Licensure  at ODU?
Students entering the Bachelor of Arts program in German with Teaching Licensure  should meet the minimum university admission requirements Undergraduate Admission.


All students must apply for and be admitted into the approved foreign language teacher preparation program for German. 


Students must meet the required criteria for admission by passing the Virginia Board of Education prescribed assessments and earn the minimum required grade point averages (GPA).




More Program and Degree Requirements








            Transfer
          

At ODU, we understand that as a transfer student you have unique needs that require a wide array of campus resources. The Center for Advising Administration and Academic Partnerships aims to create a transfer inclusive culture that supports the successful...



Transfer Info
























Featured Courses









        GER 312W
            




View full course description for 
Communicative Competence: Writing and Reading



                  This is a writing intensive course designed with writing assignments that examine various cultural contexts that enable…
              











        GER 312W
            



Communicative Competence: Writing and Reading





This is a writing intensive course designed with writing assignments that examine various cultural contexts that enable students to understand cultural content, style, audience and organization. The main objective of the course is increased awareness of and sensitivity to appropriate word choice, and syntax in the language. Students will engage in writing for different cultural audiences and in varied contexts such as literary, artistic and media expressions around the world. Special emphasis is placed on the methodology of close reading as students hone the analytics skills and vocabulary necessary to interpret idioms, regionalism, cultural expressions and overall intercultural skills observed in various genres and cultures. Students will analyze compelling global issues and the diverse cultural perspectives that inform them. Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in ENGL 211C, ENGL 221C or ENGL 231C and a grade of C or better in GER 202, advanced placement or permission of the instructor.


















        WLC 452
            




View full course description for 
Methods for Teaching World Languages in Pre-K through Grade 12



                  This course provides students with a foundation of major theoretical methods of teaching and learning a world language,…
              











        WLC 452
            



Methods for Teaching World Languages in Pre-K through Grade 12





This course provides students with a foundation of major theoretical methods of teaching and learning a world language, focusing mainly on current theories; laws, regulations, and policies in Virginia; language advocacy; and a systematic approach to the practical tools of creating a positive learning environment, designing a pacing guide, syllabus, unit and lesson plans, rubric and assessment guides, formulating a personal teaching philosophy, teaching mini lessons, and creation of a professional e-Portfolio based on VDOE Performance Standards and Evaluation Criteria for Teachers. Offered in asynchronous format with a few meetings with the professor and classmates, this course precedes student teaching. Prerequisites: Admission to the Teacher Preparation Program, a cumulative and major GPA of 2.75 with grades of C or higher, SAT or ACT scores, qualifying score of the VCLA; teachers with provisional licenses need only to provide a copy of the letter from VDOE listing a methods course requirement. Pre- or corequisite: WLC 456 and ACTFL certification or oral proficiency assessments (OPI) at the Advanced low level or higher and certificates for dyslexia, first aid, and child abuse and neglect.


















        WLC 456
            




View full course description for 
Seminar in World Languages Teacher Education



                  Students complete 30-hours of observation and may practice teaching methods under supervision in a PreK-12 world…
              











        WLC 456
            



Seminar in World Languages Teacher Education





Students complete 30-hours of observation and may practice teaching methods under supervision in a PreK-12 world language classroom. By the end of the semester, students must provide qualifying scores on the VCLA, PRAXIS II Subject Area Assessment of Spanish, French, or German, ACTFL Oral and Writing Proficiency Assessments, and certificates for Child Abuse and Neglect Recognition and Intervention Training, Emergency First Aid, CPR & AED Certification, Dyslexia Awareness Training, and Behavior Intervention and Support Training. Available for pass/fail grading only. Prerequisites: Admission to the Teacher Preparation program, a cumulative and major GPA of 2.75 with grades of C or higher, SAT or ACT scores, and qualifying score of the VCLA. Pre- or corequisite: WLC 452 and ACTFL certification or oral proficiency assessments (OPI) at the Advanced low level or higher and certificates for dyslexia, first aid, and child abuse and neglect.
















Full Course Catalog














        Cost
            




Estimated rates for the 2023-24 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.






Active Duty Military Rate

Cost Per-Credit
$250





Virginia Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$393





Technology Delivered Courses Outside Virginia and/or the United States

Cost Per-Credit
$407





Non-Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$1,073







Ways to Save
Here are a few ways for you to save on the cost of attending ODU. For more information visit University Student Financial aid






Cost Estimator











        Next Steps
            














        Explore Community
            




















        Request Information
            




















        Virtual Tour
            




















        Visit Campus
            



















Contact


















Kerstin Steitz


                  Associate Professor
                


757-683-5475


ksteitz@odu.edu



          4001 BATTEN ARTS & LETTERS          
        NORFOLK,            23529
  




















Contact



Undergraduate Admissions



 
          1004 Rollins Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3685
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3255
                
        fax
            
      








admissions@odu.edu

















Contact



International Admissions



 
          2101 Dragas Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3701
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3651
                
        fax
            
      








intladm@odu.edu
































        Related Programs
            



German (World Languages & Cultures, B.A.)





Related Minors

German (Minor)




































 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















