






















Modeling & Simulation Engineering (Graduate Certificate) | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



















Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Programs


                  Modeling & Simulation Engineering (Graduate Certificate)
              



Modeling & Simulation Engineering (Graduate Certificate)





Program HighlightsCareersCoursesRequirementsCostNext-StepsContact





Request Info




Apply









 

























About this Program

Further your background and expertise with a PhD in modeling and simulation. This is a rigorous research program designed to train individuals for careers in teaching and research in the public or private sector. Students will have the opportunity to work with our faculty on research projects and gain experience solving real world problems.




Program Highlights


Modeling and Simulation Engineering is creating a design or hypothesis and testing it in real-world conditions through: Graphical and Mathematical Models, Virtual Reality Simulations, Serious Gaming, Computer Programming, 3-D Printed Models, Statistical Analysis


Internships in areas related to the program are available


Students are encouraged to assist with faculty research projects and to present their own research at regional, national and international professional communication associations


Opportunities to develop study abroad programs are available








 




Available In-Person and Online




            AT A GLANCE
          


        Batten College of Engineering & Technology
      



        Electrical & Computer Engineering
      


Degree Level

        Graduate
            


Degree Earned

        Certificate
            


Delivery Modes












Online















          On-Campus
      


















            Careers
          


Check out these ideas from ODU Career Development Services and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.














Software Developers, Applications






            $106,710
      
Median Salary




Develop, create, and modify general computer applications software or specialized utility programs. Analyze user needs and develop software solutions. Design software or customize software for client use with the aim of optimizing operational efficiency. May analyze and design databases within an application area, working individually or coordinating database development as part of a team. May supervise computer programmers.








Geospatial Information Scientists and Technologists






            $91,080
      
Median Salary




Research or develop geospatial technologies. May produce databases, perform applications programming, or coordinate projects. May specialize in areas such as agriculture, mining, health care, retail trade, urban planning, or military intelligence.








Web Developers






            $74,110
      
Median Salary




Design, create, and modify Web sites. Analyze user needs to implement Web site content, graphics, performance, and capacity. May integrate Web sites with other computer applications. May convert written, graphic, audio, and video components to compatible Web formats by using software designed to facilitate the creation of Web and multimedia content.








Computer Programmers






            $87,530
      
Median Salary




Create, modify, and test the code, forms, and script that allow computer applications to run. Work from specifications drawn up by software developers or other individuals. May assist software developers by analyzing user needs and designing software solutions. May develop and write computer programs to store, locate, and retrieve specific documents, data, and information.


































Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for Modeling & Simulation Engineering  at ODU?
Students entering the Certificate program in Modeling & Simulation Engineering  should meet the minimum university admission requirements Graduate Admission.


The Graduate Certificate in Modeling and Simulation is designed for those with engineering and computer science related backgrounds who wish to broaden their knowledge of modeling and simulation related principles and practices without pursuing a graduate degree. This is a 12 credit hour non-degree program offered by the Department of Modeling Simulation and Visualization Engineering. The graduate certificate program is open to both degree-seeking and non-degree-seeking graduate students. Courses taken for the certificate program may later be applied to a master's degree in modeling and simulation.




Undergraduate degree from a regionally accredited institution 


Mathematical background through calculus, along with a calculus based probability and statistics course


Submit a graduate non-degree application through the Office of Admissions


Submit a departmental application with copies of unofficial transcripts from all previous coursework to the MSVE Department




More Program and Degree Requirements





















Featured Courses









        MSIM 602
            




View full course description for 
Simulation Fundamentals



                  An introduction to the modeling and simulation discipline. Introduction to discrete event simulation (DES) including…
              











        MSIM 602
            



Simulation Fundamentals





An introduction to the modeling and simulation discipline. Introduction to discrete event simulation (DES) including simulation methodology, input data modeling, output data analysis, and an overview of DES tools. Introduction to continuous simulation (CS) including simulation methodology, differential equation models, numerical solution techniques, and an overview of CS tools. Prerequisites: graduate standing; undergraduate preparation in calculus and probability & statistics; and computer literacy.


















        MSIM 541
            




View full course description for 
Computer Graphics and Visualization



                  The course provides a practical treatment of computer graphics and visualization with emphasis on modeling and…
              











        MSIM 541
            



Computer Graphics and Visualization





The course provides a practical treatment of computer graphics and visualization with emphasis on modeling and simulation applications. It covers digital image and signal processing basics such as sampling and discrete Fourier transform, computer graphics fundamentals, visualization principles, and software architecture for visualization in modeling and simulation. Written communication and information literacy skills are stressed in this course. (Cross listed with ECE 506.) (Offered fall) Prerequisites: a grade of C or better in CS 381 or ECE 348.


















        MSIM 510
            




View full course description for 
Model Engineering



                  The goal of this course is to develop understanding of the various modeling paradigms appropriate for capturing system…
              











        MSIM 510
            



Model Engineering





The goal of this course is to develop understanding of the various modeling paradigms appropriate for capturing system behavior and conducting digital computer simulation of many types of systems. The techniques and concepts discussed typically include UML, concept graphs, Bayesian nets, Markov models, Petri nets, system dynamics, Bond graphs, etc. Students will report on a particular technique and team to implement a chosen system model. (cross-listed with ECE 510)
















Full Course Catalog














        Cost
            




Estimated rates for the 2023-24 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.






Virginia Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$599





Technology Delivered Courses Outside Virginia and/or the United States

Cost Per-Credit
$623





Non-Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$1,439







Ways to Save
Here are a few ways for you to save on the cost of attending ODU. For more information visit University Student Financial aid






Cost Estimator











        Next Steps
            














        Explore Community
            




















        Request Information
            




















        Virtual Tour
            




















        Visit Campus
            



















Contact


















Masha Sosonkina


                  Graduate Program Director
                


757-683-3720


msosonki@odu.edu



          1318 ENGR & COMP SCI BLDG          
        NORFOLK,            23529
  




















Contact



Graduate Admissions



 
          1000 Rollins Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3685
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3255
                
        fax
            
      








gradadmit@odu.edu

















Contact



International Admissions



 
          2101 Dragas Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3701
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3651
                
        fax
            
      








intladm@odu.edu
































        Related Programs
            



Modeling & Simulation Engineering (B.S.COM.E.-MSE)


Computer Science (B.S.C.S.)


Information Systems & Technology (B.S.B.A.)





Related Minors

Modeling & Simulation (Minor)


Information Systems & Technology (Minor)


Computer Science (Minor)




































 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















