





















Education Programs | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



























 














Breadcrumb


Home


Continuing Education


                  Education Programs
              



Education Programs












            Featured Programs
          










Registered Play Therapy



        This program provides professionals and students the opportunity to learn more about play therapy or to receive the training necessary to become a Registered Play Therapist (RPT).
            



Explore Play Therapy Training


















Test Preparation



        Prepare for college admissions, graduate admissions or professional exams including: ACT, SAT, LSAT, GRE, GMAT and Praxis.
            



Explore Test Preparation















Continuing Education


HOME


ABOUT US


AVP Welcome


Calendar


Directory


News


Partners




OUR PROGRAMS


Certified Financial Planner (CFP)


Certified Medical Assistant (CMA)


Credit Programs


Human Resource Management (SHRM)


IT Systems Support Specialist


Lean Six Sigma


Paralegal Certificate Program


Project Management


Supply Chain Management 


More. . .




STUDENT SERVICES


Financial Information


Transcript Request




BUSINESS SERVICES


CEUs for Outside Organizations


Customized Training




CONTACT US


Department Directory


Directions
















ODU-Affiliated Education Courses












Advanced Live Online and Zoom Instructor Training
Take your Live Online teaching to the next level for greater student satisfaction, learning, completion and retention. Come away with information you can use Monday morning. Come away with practical, how-to tips and techniques, plus the pedagogy of Live Online teaching. Taught by one of the foremost teachers of adults. 

Beginning Conversational Spanish
Designed for beginners, we will have you speaking and reading Spanish in no time. You will practice the basic building blocks of the language and common idiomatic expressions. You will know enough vocabulary and grammar for simple conversations, and you will learn how to ask and answer questions. Whether you speak some Spanish and need a refresher, or no Spanish, you will complete the course with the skills to communicate in Spanish. 

Certificate in Effective Grammar
Write and edit better starting today. Gain confidence in your writing. Improve your communication skills. This course will reinforce the rules you learned in school and teach you some you didn't.

Culturally Responsive Pedagogy in the Diverse Classroom
Educators and psychologists know that learning is significantly affected by factors such as stress, anxiety, self-image, cultural expectations and societal expectations. The increasing number of students diverse backgrounds in today's classrooms introduces a tremendous diversity of lived experience which influences how students learn. In this course, we will examine the factors that come together to create unique challenges to black students in the classroom and explore ways in which teachers can minimize those challenges and support school success for all students. 

Management Certificate
Enhance your management skills through this program for supervisors, managers, and emerging leaders. Nothing creates success like a solid foundation. Discover the keys for effectively managing your employees. Find out how to create clear expectations, engage and motivate employees, and increase your effectiveness. 

Personal Development
Whether looking for a job, a promotion, or becoming a freelancer, developing these soft skills will add value to your career goals and set you apart from other candidates. However, the main question is, do you have many of these skills? How can they be developed and cultivated?
In order to develop soft skills it is crucial to learn more about oneself; this will help you become more aware of your mindset. Being conscious about your emotions and actions will lead you to develop many softs skills such as communication, adaptability, creativity, and leadership.

Registered Play Therapy
This program provides professionals and students in the community with the opportunity to learn more about play therapy or to receive the training necessary to become a Registered Play Therapist (RPT). The Play Therapy program is offered as a series of nine (9) weekend workshops worth 17 continuing education hours each (16 contact CE's and one non-contact CE). Individuals can attend one or all of the workshops.

Test Preparation
College admissions, including ACT & SAT prep; Graduate admissions, including LSAT, GRE, GMAT Prep; and Praxis Core Prep classes, all include expert instruction, a proven format, all required course materials, and online support resources in one convenient, affordable package.

The Teen Brain
One of the most turbulent periods in brain development occurs during adolescence. The teen brain actually functions very differently from the adult brain. Certain kinds of thinking, such as decision-making, actually happen in different parts of the brain for adolescents and adults. Understanding these complex changes can help calm the rough seas of the teen years, but also provide your teen with critical support and understanding that will promote better decision-making, better mental health, and better outcomes at school. Come find out the important ways in which the teen brain is developing. Identify behaviors and attitudes that are influenced by these changes. Then learn to offer constructive strategies for establishing a better understanding of and communication with your amazing teen.

Wordpress
WordPress is the most popular content management system (CMS) for website and blog design. Topics include an introduction to CMS, WordPress installation and setup, page and content creation, administration, themes (selection, purchase, installation, and setup), working with widgets and plugins, and more. 

 
































 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















