






















Engineering Management & Systems Engineering (Engineering, D.Eng.) | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



















Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Programs


                  Engineering Management & Systems Engineering (Engineering, D.Eng.)
              



Engineering Management & Systems Engineering (Engineering, D.Eng.)





Program HighlightsCareersCoursesRequirementsCostNext-StepsContact





Request Info




Apply









 

























About this Program

This program is designed to develop world-class professional systems engineers and engineering managers. This is achieved by combining the highest-level education and practical business experience. We do this by integrating EMSE departmental capabilities with the relevant problems and environment of a sponsoring company. This ensures that each student advances theoretical knowledge in a practical context.




Program Highlights


Designed to leverage the research and know-how of the faculty


Collaborative environment built on the unique relationship between the faculty advisor and the doctoral student


Students will develop the highest possible capability to provide innovative solutions in specialized engineering endeavors


The graduates of the program will meet the highest standards for advanced level engineering and leadership positions in industry and government










            AT A GLANCE
          


        Batten College of Engineering & Technology
      



        Engineering Management & Systems Engineering
      


Degree Level

        Graduate
            


Degree Earned

        Doctor of Engineering
            


Concentration

        Engineering Management and Systems Engineering
            


Delivery Modes












          On-Campus
      


















            Careers
          


Check out these ideas from ODU Career Development Services and the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). A median salary is a midpoint of what people typically earn—half of those surveyed earned above the median salary, and half earned below.














Engineering Teachers, Postsecondary






            $109,830
      
Median Salary




Teach courses pertaining to the application of physical laws and principles of engineering for the development of machines, materials, instruments, processes, and services. Includes teachers of subjects such as chemical, civil, electrical, industrial, mechanical, mineral, and petroleum engineering. Includes both teachers primarily engaged in teaching and those who do a combination of teaching and research.








Chief Executives






            $196,050
      
Median Salary




Determine and formulate policies and provide overall direction of companies or private and public sector organizations within guidelines set up by a board of directors or similar governing body. Plan, direct, or coordinate operational activities at the highest level of management with the help of subordinate executives and staff managers.








Architectural and Engineering Managers






            $146,290
      
Median Salary




Plan, direct, or coordinate activities in such fields as architecture and engineering or research and development in these fields.








General and Operations Managers






            $123,460
      
Median Salary




Plan, direct, or coordinate the operations of public or private sector organizations. Duties and responsibilities include formulating policies, managing daily operations, and planning the use of materials and human resources, but are too diverse and general in nature to be classified in any one functional area of management or administration, such as personnel, purchasing, or administrative services.

























        Alumni Careers
            








        NASA
            













        Jefferson Lab
            













        Naval Surface Warfare Center
            



























Requirements
What are the requirements to apply for Engineering Management & Systems Engineering at ODU?
Students entering the Doctor of Engineering program in Engineering Management & Systems Engineering should meet the minimum university admission requirements Graduate Admission.


Undergraduate degree from an ABET-accredited program in engineering or engineering technology or from an accredited program in applied science with a GPA of 3.00 (out of 4.00) or better.


Graduate degree in Engineering Management or related discipline with GPA of 3.5 or higher.


GRE Exam (GRE requirement may be waived at GPD discretion based on academic preparation and related work experience).


Transcripts from all institutions that the applicant has attended.


A curriculum vitae that highlights professional and research related activities.


An essay of 500 words or less describing personal and academic goals, professional objectives, preparation for graduate study, and how the chosen program will help the applicant achieve these goals and objectives. The essay should clearly state the specific area in which the applicant intends to specialize.


Any prior publications.


International students also need to provide additional documentation as per International Admissions requirements.




More Program and Degree Requirements





















Featured Courses









        ENMA 855
            




View full course description for 
Human System Engineering



                  This course introduces concepts of Human System Engineering, focusing on designing systems that include human…
              











        ENMA 855
            



Human System Engineering





This course introduces concepts of Human System Engineering, focusing on designing systems that include human components. Human System Integration and Human Factors Engineering are discussed, as well as other human centered design approaches. The role of human data in systems and systems of systems design is explored, and methods to capture and represent human data, including architecture frameworks, are presented. Modeling and analysis of human centered systems is done through hands-on projects.


















        ENMA 880
            




View full course description for 
Leadership for Engineering Managers



                  Seminar discussions and team projects. This course is designed to expose students to the concepts, skills,…
              











        ENMA 880
            



Leadership for Engineering Managers





Seminar discussions and team projects. This course is designed to expose students to the concepts, skills, characteristics and emotional composition of effective and successful leaders in the 21st century. The course is intensive and requires students to immerse themselves in the course material and classroom discussion to derive meaning and value from the topics. The course objectives will be achieved by classroom discussion of the assigned material, candid self-assessment, experiential exercises and analysis of the actions of leaders, as described in case studies and literature. Areas of exploration include the fundamentals of leadership, ethical leadership, social capital, emotional intelligence and three-dimensional leadership. Ethical leadership practices is a cross-cutting theme in this course. Prerequisites: ENMA 601 or Ph.D. standing.


















        ENMA 805
            




View full course description for 
Financial Engineering



                  This course covers concepts in complex investments, how to deal with uncertainty in today's global markets, and how to…
              











        ENMA 805
            



Financial Engineering





This course covers concepts in complex investments, how to deal with uncertainty in today's global markets, and how to engineer and manage financial decisions. The main topics include: cash flows, portfolio theory, capital management, securities, hedge funds, optimal investment and financial engineering evaluations among others.
















Full Course Catalog














        Cost
            




Estimated rates for the 2023-24 academic year. Rates are subject to change. Anyone that is not a current Virginia resident will be charged non-resident rates. That includes international students.






Virginia Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$599





Technology Delivered Courses Outside Virginia and/or the United States

Cost Per-Credit
$623





Non-Resident

Cost Per-Credit
$1,439







Ways to Save
Here are a few ways for you to save on the cost of attending ODU. For more information visit University Student Financial aid






Cost Estimator








            Financial Aid
      


Financial aid is available to graduate students at Old Dominion University. Financial aid may be available in the form of University fellowships, tuition grants, and research assistantships. In addition to the financial aid offered by the University, graduate students may be eligible for aid and student loans administered by other agencies. For information about part-time employment, scholarships, and student loans, contact the Office of Student Financial Aid. 













        Next Steps
            














        Explore Community
            




















        Request Information
            




















        Virtual Tour
            




















        Visit Campus
            



















Contact




















                  Professor
                




















Contact



Graduate Admissions



 
          1000 Rollins Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3685
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3255
                
        fax
            
      








gradadmit@odu.edu

















Contact



International Admissions



 
          2101 Dragas Hall          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  








757-683-3701
                
        office
            
      




757-683-3651
                
        fax
            
      








intladm@odu.edu
































        Related Programs
            



Engineering Management & Systems Engineering (Engineering, Ph.D.)


Engineering Management (M.E.M.)


Systems Engineering (Engineering, M.E.)






































 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















