





















Transcripts | Old Dominion University


















      Skip to main content
    
























Apply


Visit


Give


myODU






Menu 


Search 


Close 



























 














Breadcrumb


Home


Academics


Academic Records


                  Transcripts
              



Transcripts













Notes:

Due to Federal privacy laws, a written or form request with the student's signature is required. We cannot fulfill e-mail or telephone requests for transcripts.
Transcripts for work at other institutions, including high schools, become the property of Old Dominion University and will not be released to third parties.
See Holds for information on holds that may prevent the student from obtaining an official or unofficial transcript.
To check on the progress of your transcript request, login to your Parchment account. For general questions related to transcripts email transcripts@odu.edu.













Transcript Fees

Payment is required before transcripts will be sent.
$5.00 for each official transcript requested.
Orders placed through Parchment will incur an additional fee.
No charge for unofficial transcripts.
 

Payment Options
 

In person at the Rollins Hall Cashier's Office (Cash or Check only).
Credit card information provided on requests made to Parchment.












            Requesting Transcripts
          






Requesting an OFFICIAL transcript:






Parchment (electronic PDF/hardcopy) (additional fees apply)
Delivery tracking included. Hardcopy orders submitted by 8pm Eastern time will be sent the same day. Electronic orders are typically sent within 24 hours. Up to 16 pages of attachments can be added to either electronic or hardcopy transcripts for no additional charge.
(Parchment option NOT AVAILABLE for students who attended prior to 1982 or Clinical Psychology Consortium students)
 
Recent graduates: Please be aware that your transcript will not show your degree information until your degree has been awarded, which can take up to 6 weeks from the end of the semester. You can check your degree status in Leo Online by going to "Admissions, Registration, Student Records, Graduation Information", clicking on "Graduation" and "View Graduation Status". If you need to show proof of degrees earned, you should place your order only after your degree has been awarded.

In Person (hardcopy only) (cash or check payment).










Requesting an UNOFFICIAL transcript:






LEO Online (hardcopy only)
In Person (hardcopy only)
 

Online Requests
Electronic (PDF) and hardcopy transcripts are now fulfilled through Parchment.
Students may still use the online request in LEO Online to order a printed UNOFFICIAL transcript. MIDAS ID and password are required to log into LEO Online.


















 

Holds
No transcript will be released if the student has financial or academic holds. Please make sure you do not have any holds on your account by checking the View Holds link in LEO Online. (The Degree Plan hold does not prevent transcript requests.)
Orders placed through Parchment will be checked for holds, and the requestor will be notified at the time of the order if the order cannot be fulfilled due to holds. If the hold is resolved within 30 days, the transcript will be released and the requestor will be charged. Otherwise, the order will be cancelled and the requestor will not be charged.






















Leo Online

















Parchment















            Obtaining Transcripts
          



Official Transcripts - Electronic (PDF) or Printed


Unofficial Transcripts







Recipients of electronic (PDF) transcripts are sent a link via e-mail when the transcript is available to be retrieved. This link can only be used one time and expires after 30 days. The requestor will be notified via email and, if applicable, by text message to your mobile device when the transcript has been retrieved (or if the recipient has NOT retrieved the transcript).
Official printed transcripts are always mailed (or picked up by the requester) and are only official if in the sealed Old Dominion University envelope. Transcripts issued to the student or picked up at the Registrar's Office, will be stamped "Issued to Student".
The records of individuals who attended Old Dominion University prior to 1982 may not be computerized. If your record is not found you can still order a transcript, and the order will be researched and fulfilled manually by the Registrar's Office. Additional time should be allowed for the creation of those records (this may take up to 10 business days).






To view your unofficial transcript:


Log in to LEO Online secure area (MIDAS ID and password required)


In LEO Online secure area, select Admission, Registration, Student Records, Graduation Information, Credit Card Payments, and Financial Aid.


Select Student Records.


Select Academic Transcript and follow the prompts.


If you do not know your MIDAS ID and password, you can retrieve/reset them at http://midas.odu.edu. You will need your University ID number (UIN).
If you do not know your UIN, in most cases you can retrieve it at http://midas.odu.edu ("Forgot UIN?"), or you may contact register@odu.eduwith your full name and date of birth.
For assistance with your MIDAS account, please contact itshelp@odu.edu or call 757-683-3192.



Unofficial transcripts are available for viewing on the secure web site at LEO Online and are intended for personal use only. On an exceptional basis, with written and signed request, an unofficial transcript can be faxed to a third party. An official transcript must be requested at the same time and will be mailed to the same third party.
Unofficial transcripts are NOT available from Parchment but may be requested through LEO Online.




Leo Online













Official Transcripts - Electronic (PDF) or Printed





Recipients of electronic (PDF) transcripts are sent a link via e-mail when the transcript is available to be retrieved. This link can only be used one time and expires after 30 days. The requestor will be notified via email and, if applicable, by text message to your mobile device when the transcript has been retrieved (or if the recipient has NOT retrieved the transcript).
Official printed transcripts are always mailed (or picked up by the requester) and are only official if in the sealed Old Dominion University envelope. Transcripts issued to the student or picked up at the Registrar's Office, will be stamped "Issued to Student".
The records of individuals who attended Old Dominion University prior to 1982 may not be computerized. If your record is not found you can still order a transcript, and the order will be researched and fulfilled manually by the Registrar's Office. Additional time should be allowed for the creation of those records (this may take up to 10 business days).







Unofficial Transcripts





To view your unofficial transcript:


Log in to LEO Online secure area (MIDAS ID and password required)


In LEO Online secure area, select Admission, Registration, Student Records, Graduation Information, Credit Card Payments, and Financial Aid.


Select Student Records.


Select Academic Transcript and follow the prompts.


If you do not know your MIDAS ID and password, you can retrieve/reset them at http://midas.odu.edu. You will need your University ID number (UIN).
If you do not know your UIN, in most cases you can retrieve it at http://midas.odu.edu ("Forgot UIN?"), or you may contact register@odu.eduwith your full name and date of birth.
For assistance with your MIDAS account, please contact itshelp@odu.edu or call 757-683-3192.



Unofficial transcripts are available for viewing on the secure web site at LEO Online and are intended for personal use only. On an exceptional basis, with written and signed request, an unofficial transcript can be faxed to a third party. An official transcript must be requested at the same time and will be mailed to the same third party.
Unofficial transcripts are NOT available from Parchment but may be requested through LEO Online.




Leo Online













Academic Records


Home


Grades


Academic Performance


Adjusted Resident Credit (ARC)


Appealing


Forgiveness


Non-Degree Credits




Transcripts


Credit Evaluation


Degree Evaluation


Prior Learning Assessment




Testing & Score Analysis


AP, IB, Cambridge, & CAPE Credit


CLEP & DSST Credit


Math Placement


Writing Sample Placement Test




Holds


Enrollment Verification










Important Academic Dates













May
13


Session 1 & 3 classes begin

(All day)







May
24


Maymester classes end

(All day)







May
27


Memorial Day Holiday - No Classes

(All day)






















Leo Online













Privacy of Student Info






























 







          5115 Hampton Blvd          
        Norfolk,           VA 23529
  















Contact













Facebook













Twitter













Instagram













YouTube













LinkedIn














Resources


Employment


Directories


University Libraries


Alumni






Legal


Privacy


Accessibility


Consumer Information


Health and Safety


Emergency






Visit


Visit ODU


Transportation & Parking


Maps and Directions


















Copyright © Old Dominion University • Updated 2023





















Mega Menu



Apply










Visit










Give










myODU










Academics








        Academic Programs
            





            All Programs
          



            Undergraduate Programs
          



            Graduate Programs
          



            Continued Learning
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Study Abroad
          



            Summer Studies
          



            Pre-College Programs
          









        Colleges & Schools
            





            All Colleges & Schools
          



            College of Arts & Letters
          



            Strome College of Business
          



            Darden College of Education
          



            Batten College of Engineering & Technology 
          



            College of Health Sciences
          



            College of Sciences
          



            Honors College
          



            School of Cyber Security
          



            Graduate School
          



            School of Continuing Education
          









        Academic Resources
            





            Academic Calendars
          



            University Libraries
          



            Academic Advising
          



            Tutoring
          



            Writing Center
          



            Academic Success
          



            University Catalogs
          



            Higher Education Regional Centers
          









Admission & Aid








        Future Students
            





            Undergraduate Admissions
          



            Graduate Admissions
          



            International Admissions
          



            ODUGlobal
          



            Military & Veterans
          









        Admitted Students
            





            Undergraduate
          



            Graduate
          



            International
          



            English Proficiency
          



            Returning Students
          









        Cost & Aid
            





            Tuition & Fees
          



            Financial Aid
          



            Scholarships
          



            Housing
          



            Meal Plans
          



            Parking Permits
          



            Cost Estimator
          



            GI Bill Benefits
          









Life at ODU








        Getting Involved
            





            Clubs & Organizations
          



            Office of Intercultural Relations
          



            Recreation & Wellness
          



            Student Engagement & Traditions
          



            Leadership & Learning
          



            Off-Campus University Life
          



            Service & Civic Engagement
          









        University Services
            





            University Village Bookstore
          



            Housing
          



            Dining
          



            Transportation & Parking
          



            Health & Safety
          









        Student Services
            





            Educational Accessibility
          



            Student Success Center
          



            Career Development Services
          



            International Student Resources
          



            Student Outreach & Support
          



            Counseling
          



            Women & Gender Equity Center
          



            LGBTQIA+ Initiatives
          



            Military Connection Center
          









Research








        Research
            





            Research Centers
          



            ODU Research Foundation
          



            Office of Research
          



            Research Initiatives
          



            Grants & Funding
          



            Student Research
          









        Initiatives & Outreach
            





            Cybersecurity
          



            Global & Public Health
          



            Center for Social Mobility
          



            Economic Forecasting
          



            Maritime, Ports & Logistics
          



            Modeling & Simulation
          



            Spaceflight & Autonomous Systems
          



            Bioelectrics & Biomedical
          



            Coastal Adaptation & Resilience
          









        Innovation & Entrepreneurship
            





            Strome Entrepreneurial Center
          









Community








        Programs & Partnerships
            





            Visitors Guide
          



            Sports & Recreation
          



            Community Partnerships
          



            Pre-College & Summer Programs
          



            Vendors
          









        Alumni
            





            Alumni Association 
          



            Lion's Den
          



            Alumni Directory
          



            Homecoming
          



            Donate
          









        Military & Veterans
            





            Army ROTC
          



            Navy ROTC
          



            Veterans Services
          



            Military Partnerships
          









About ODU








        Our Story
            





            Accreditation
          



            Facts & Figures
          



            Coastal Virginia 
          



            History & Archives
          



            Employment
          



            Contact the University
          









        Leadership
            





            Office of the President
          



            Administration & Organization
          



            Strategic Planning & Initiatives
          









        News & Events
            





            News at ODU
          



            Media Center
          



            University Calendar
          



            Monarch Magazine
          









Arts & Culture








        Arts & Culture
            





            Arts @ ODU
          



            Gordon Art Galleries
          



            Diehn Concert Series
          



            Literary Festival
          



            Barry Art Museum
          









Athletics










Default / Quicklinks




















        Quick Links
            





            A to Z Index
          



            Directories
          



            University Libraries
          



            Bookstore
          



            Academic Calendar
          



            Campus Map
          



            University Calendar
          









        Current Students
            





            Student Resources
          



            Student Email
          



            Canvas
          



            Add, Drop, Withdraw 
          



            Dining
          



            Monarch Groups
          



            Tuition & Aid
          



            Parking & Transportation
          









        Faculty & Staff
            





            Faculty & Staff Resources
          



            Faculty/Staff Email
          



            LEO Online
          



            Academic Advisors
          



            Human Resources
          



            Technology Services
          



            Center for Faculty Development
          



            Center for Learning & Teaching
          
























           Experience Guaranteed
        



Enhance your college career by gaining relevant experience with the skills and knowledge needed for your future career. Discover our experiential learning opportunities.













           Academic Days
        



Picture yourself in the classroom, speak with professors in your major, and meet current students.













           Upcoming Events
        



From sports games to concerts and lectures, join the ODU community at a variety of campus events. 






















